# Transcription: 05 - Internal Range vs. External Range Liquidity Aggregation.mp4

Okay guys it's been a while so without further ado let's get straight back into it. So today I want to talk about internal range versus external range aggregation okay and this will tie in nicely with the directional premise using the swing highs and swing lows and the concept of the liquidity gap okay so I'll run through these points and then we will get down and I'll show you some examples on the charts and you can get get some testing done and observe this phenomenon and see see how you can can use it okay in subsequent videos I'll start talking about specific setups but this is still more based on the directional premise okay we need to know exactly where price is going and then once we know that getting on board is easy okay so let's get to it. As we've learned so far all price does move from efficient to efficient all day every day okay that's my belief well it's not a belief that's what the market does based on order aggregation okay so in order to take advantage of this we have to have a framework around where price is going so today I want to discuss the two distinct areas price will gravitate towards depending on what the current PAs is telling us okay so this is an internal range price move and an external range price move okay should be self explanatory an internal range move is where price stays within the current trading range okay no shit external range is when price moves away or out of the current trading range okay so let's talk about external range price moves first okay so an external range price move is when price will move towards a previous swing high or low that has recently formed or hasn't Been previously closed through okay That might sound a little complicated, but all I'm meaning is that we haven't had a market structure shift at that level I a closed through it and It's a key swing that formed Previously okay, it's as simple as that You'll see when we get down to the charts what I mean previous level of structure is pretty obvious if you Always use the same framework, okay? So what skills do we need to take advantage of this? We need to be able to identify when price is most likely reaching for external range Now that all internal range LG's have been filled in okay. This is the kicker Once all LG's have been filled in We can look at external range place where we're reaching for liquidity above or below highs or lows Okay Simple as that We need to be patient enough to allow the rebalancing to occur before jumping in, now while this may be obvious, patience is the name of the game in this industry, if we're impatient we get fucked, so we have to let the rebalancing occur, we have to react when price gets to the level we're looking at and that's the big thing here, we have to be patient enough to wait, once price gives us what we want then we're jumping in balls deep, but we don't do that until we're clear and all the conditions are met, so that's external range, it's pretty simple, hopefully everyone should understand this quickly and we can move on to more specific topics around getting on board, so let's look at internal range price moves, so internal range plays are when price will rebalance towards a recent LG that was printed. recent is relative based on the time frame we're trading. The 4 hour direction is our intraday direction chart so this would be talking about a 4 hour chart for example. So recent is relative to the 4 hour. Untested LGs are usually better because they haven't offered a rebalancing and thus are fresh liquidity and what I really mean by this is that if it's been tested we've already picked some of the orders up there so if we get another expansion through that level there might not be enough orders to hold price there and thus we lose that LG. If we lose all of the LGs within a current range then that's when we start to gravitate back towards external range plays because we're looking for price to move away from this range now that it is fully rebalanced. But within these LGs, within the internal range, we can play them in both directions as long as we understand what's going on okay and we sort of play the rebalancing towards the next LG so the way people will talk on on Retard Twitter about level to level this is the same sort of premise that we're just taking it from LG to LG in internal range okay external range we normally to get from LG to swing high or swing low okay so if that makes it easier to understand then go with that but LG to LG or level to level okay so what skills do we need to take advantage of internal range moves well we need to be able to identify the current rating range obviously and that's based on the timeframe we're using for direction again it's relative so we're using a 4 hour chart and this will be a 4 hour trading range okay and then we need to be able to identify the LGs within because those will be for rebalancing price okay so most of the time we want to be trading out of an LG or towards an LG this is our internal range place okay and once again we need to be patient enough to allow the rebalancing to occur before jumping in okay so internal range for me is the high probability stuff that's where I spend most of my time okay because for me those are the highest probability based on the data set I have and my performance statistics okay so that's something to note I want to spend 90% of my time here and when I see an internal range being lost then we can look at external range but normally I'd say 80% of the time minimum I want to be playing internal range moves okay and finally little says one sauce just to get your head around some of this shit the reactions around LGs give us the most accurate data for short-term price movement than anything I've ever seen and that's why most of my system revolves around LGs now okay it's swing high swing lows liquidity gaps and then what we'll talk about in subsequent videos is how we get on board using failure swings and false breaks okay so now I've got that out of the way let's move down to the chart and we will start looking at price okay we'll just go away from current price okay so start here now this it doesn't matter what market condition we're in okay this will always work per se as long as you follow the rules okay so if we start up here okay price we haven't got anything to the right here so So we've just put in this swing high okay now in terms of this swing high here what led to this swing okay this is how we get our range okay. Well if we look at this entire move we've got a low here that ran a low okay so we swept the low here or a false break we pushed up we formed a higher low higher high higher low higher high higher low we ran the low again there okay. So for me I would take the range from here all the way up to here as a larger trading range or because this move down also swept this low we can take a more concise approach and take it from swing low here to swing high so the current trading range we're in if we're up here and we don't have anything to the right. we're in this range okay now I used that range because we took this low so that was an area of rebalancing that led to further expansion okay so that red okay so there's our range pretty small range for the 4 hour chart and again it's relative but there's our trading range okay now this is probably quite a good example because we're coming close to a top you can see the LGC here gap LGC we balanced we had lots of LGC's there okay and then we got an LGC inside bar sort of an LGC it did close above of the gap but immediately we want that swing high and we've got a bearish candle okay so we need to identify the LG's within this range okay and once we lose them we look at external range plays or we look for the LGs that relate to being under swing lows or above swing highs. So if I get the parallel channel, which is brilliant by the way if you guys want to use it because it has the EQ built in, so we had this LGC here after a rate on the low created a gap now we quickly filled it in okay there and then we came up and we formed this LGC here okay so realistically there would be the liquidity gap okay from this high of the subsequent inside bar after this LGC and the LGC here that closed above with this little gap okay so technically you could use it from the body high to there, there okay so now we've got the liquidity gap up here we had this one but as I said untested or better and this is technically untested until the next candle but what happens is that we get a close through it okay so the high there comes in at five seven five nine seven the close there five seven oh one two so we've lost that liquidity gap and this is what I would call an LG reversal but again we'll talk about that concept a little more in detail in the future but now that we've lost this level okay we look for the next LG to target now there's no LG's in this trading range okay so what does that tell us that tells us that we're most likely going external range okay so now our direction is down because we've closed through the LG and we're looking to take trades in the direction which is down towards the next logical area which in this case would be external range liquidity there okay because we don't have any untested LGs in there that was the only one that really formed but we immediately closed through it you can see a little pop-up there to test it and then LGC down so the flow has changed and as soon as we get that close below here we know well not we know but we we can with high probability take trades towards this swing low and I've got someone else going off something must be pumping yeah so we've closed through we're within this trading range But there's no other LGs in here, so we can safely deduce that this is going to be the external liquidity run, ok? So, because I know this is going to be an external liquidity run, then I look for the LGs below this level. Ok? Here was one. And here was one. Now this is where it gets sexy in my opinion. Now, we've taken a trade from here. Actually, I'll just mark it. I wonder what date it'll be on. February. Ok, so we close through. So as soon as that candle closes, our directional premise is down. Our target is this low. This liquidity gap, ok? Because it resides just under this low. And as you can see, we move down. I'm just going to get rid of that. Fuck it. As you can see, we move down quick. was a tiny wick there I don't know if you can see it but it was a wick up LGC down flows changed now we're definitely going for this low and into this gap what happened boom we ran the low okay we touched the liquidity gap but we didn't get a full fill and then boom we ran through this liquidity gap EQ just about held we ran through this one and we also ran external range of that larger trading range here okay so now we were able to take a trade here based on the fact that we lost this last LG which I would call an LG reversal okay and we had a clear target of that low an external range into this LG just below okay we also ran through this one and we also ran through this low now what is this tell us so we've now had an external range play here once we get through that external range we look at the next trading range which would be this low to this high where are the gaps there we came down tested it boom whipped right through this gap this gap and this low that tells me that there was a lot of liquidity there but if we take now this was the range okay until we lost it so now the range becomes this high to this low and because we've ran through all these levels to me that is now a lower low okay it's not a sweep of low that's bullish it's a lower low in order flow because the flow had changed here liquidity gap was lost up here we knew where we're going here this liquidity gap didn't hold although we didn't close below it look at that wick we had to go all the way down here to pick up orders so to me that just means that the flow is going to continue in the direction of the current flow okay which is down so what do we wait for within now we've got a new range okay we've lost well we've got a new range from high to low so where do we look we look at liquidity gaps within now let's mark some of these i'll just take these away because they've sort of done the job i know actually that one hasn't we'll leave that one on so we'll start at the top we've got we've got this lgc here that left the gap and then we had this lgc that also rated the high but we didn't fully fill the gap okay and then that sent us down into the next gap okay so we just go from cap to cap we came down through all these and then we came up for a lower high remember that's a lower low this is a lower high where did we come into it was into this liquidity gap now we didn't fully fill it but to me that's pretty much a rejection of the liquidity gap we went right through the EQ and we close all the way down here at this previous level the external range play we were looking at from before so now we've got a possible rebalance here into this LG so where are we going now well because this wick is so big we don't have any LG so again the target becomes external range under this low okay and if you want you can look at any LG's over here but to keep it simple this is an external range play and that's what we're focusing on at the moment so that's the target okay we had our range from high to low we came up to the lower high into an LG tested the EQ and rolled over okay now here's a point as well and why I didn't delete these we didn't lose it there but we came up for the balancing and then we lost that level. So as soon as we close through it here, we come down and we close right at the low of this, but again, it runs through it. To me that's just showing that it wants lower. So the external range play towards this low. Once we close through this LG here with this LGC, the directional premise now becomes down again, but we can comfortably take trades out of this LG or out of this LG towards this low. And if this is a four hour chart and we're looking for say 30 minute setups or possibly 15 or five minute setups, that's quite a move. Okay. So we've lost this LG, lost this LG now. Okay. Close below this candle here, close below both LGs and below this low. Now what does that tell us? That tells us that, well, this range has now been filled and lost. okay those LG's didn't hold so now we just wait for another rebalancing okay as you can see we did run the external range okay out of this LG boom came down and pushed up slightly and then we came down and ran the lows again but the flow was still bearish okay we've now run under this low impulse impulse impulse impulse impulse look at the the up candles compared to the down candles clear downtrend okay so now we get here and I just I can clear all this now okay so when I undo this low we've filled this range and we went external range okay so So now we have a new range formed, this low here to this high was a range, then we formed a lower high and a lower low. So now this becomes our trading range. So within this range, what are we looking for? We're looking for liquidity gaps that we are going to rebalance to before fueling a subsequent expansion. The trend is now down, the flow is now down, so we're still looking for shorts, and as you can see we came up, we swept a high into an LG, my bread and butter, sweeps within LGs. At this previous level of structure, okay, now you might wonder why. up here i was looking at the lgc that caused the lg reversal now we do have one here if you see so we had the low here lgc through so this was the gap but immediately after we closed above it just like here now this is not a reversal in the sense that it's going to change price because the flow is now down and the low that relates sorry the high that relates to a structure shift is this swing now because that's the range we're in this is the low this is the high of the range okay so until we get above there none of these reversals are lg reversals in my opinion because trend and flow is now down running this low change that okay so this lower low this lower high lower low if i just mark this quickly again that is my 1 2 3 market structure shift so on the 4 hour we've now got bearish market structure bearish flow so when we see this we tend to look for rebalancing into upper LG's runs on highs and then expansion down towards you guessed it either internal range LG's or external range lows okay so we've rated the high no it's at this previous level of structure and we got a big LGC off it so again that looks like expansion is starting where's are there any liquidity gaps in this range no there was there but it was quickly filled in okay and then we sort of dribbled up now this is clear consolidation why because it's balanced price okay it's very balanced price action okay expansion quick rebalancing and then we just fucked about dribbled up and round the high okay clear consolidation and then we go into clear expansion clear consolidation clear expansion okay but we've got no LG's in here we know this is consolidation we're looking to take it where if there's no LG's here external range okay so now we can use this sweep into the LG as a directional bias to take trades towards the external range and as you can see we came down there okay once we got there again we need to look at the range we're in okay so this is the high this is the low this range here okay so then we need to look at and identify the LG's within here okay again we had this LG reversal down here but the flow is still bearish So until we get above this high now, still bearish, okay? Excuse me. So we've quite a big LG here due to the big LGC, okay? Again, we came up the balance, pushed off, lower high, expansion down, okay? So we've got the one LG here, and we've got the upper LG, which I'm gonna pull up. Pull that across a little bit, and hopefully you'll see why in a sec. Okay, so expansion down, we went into consolidation, again, very balanced. Any LGCs get rebalanced quickly, okay? Again, another one, rebalanced quickly, lower high, expansion, okay? So now we're coming out of the EQ of this LG, four and U low, okay? So this LG caused the move down, and again, this is the play why because there are new LG's in there that are untested so once we get into this LG okay we move down there's the lower high we can take trades all the way down to this low now for external range plays okay hopefully that isn't too complex so now we're under this low now this is where it becomes spicy okay I hope so I kept this LG on for a reason we ran under for the external range okay again there's the little LG well big LGC down now read on the low okay no that's giving us information but we don't know any anything that's happening after so we've got this LGC again flow still down but now we need to look at what current trading range range we're in? Well for me we came off this low for the lower high and then we put a lower low in. So it's from this high to this low okay. Now we're under this low let's start marking out levels within this internal range. Are there any liquidity gaps? No. So if there's no liquidity gaps where are we going? External range okay. So we get under this low we form a swing we get an LGC there okay gap created. So that to me that's the start of the expansion the swings formed we can comfortably take trades towards the external range again towards this because there are no LGs in here okay. We do have this LG now that is well that can be modified. We'll pull that across as well okay. we closed above it we consolidated once we closed above it we pushed up to the LG the upper LG and we rejected okay what we came down where did we come down to for in this range now from low to high we came into this gap okay down to the EQ with the low pushed on now this is important now okay we got some expansion to the upside for the first time in a while okay you got a higher low into an area where price wants to rebalance and that led to us leaving this range now so the range from high to low all of this we've now got above this liquidity gap okay and if I just pull we went the external range as well okay so the close above this liquidity gap for me shows that again there are no other liquidity gaps within this range so we go for the high and then we wait for the reaction at the high okay we swept and we started moving down however in terms of directional bias we've now closed through this LG this LG using this move okay so now we can identify LGs within this entire range from low to high and because we've closed through all of the LGs on this swing we might be looking at a higher low and then a move into some of the upper LGs up here that are previously untested okay and I got to that Hypothesis using the fact that we closed through these LGs. Okay, we went to external range and we came back down We rebalanced to this area, okay We swept lows. This could be the higher low Coming out of a an area of inefficiency. We've balanced it. We're going into consolidation and then boom Right out of that level boom Okay So now if I take all of this away We got above I'm just going to use a horizontal to show we got above this LG And we swept this high Now While this sweep can be taken to the downside we can only well for me We're looking at internal range of this there's gaps here. There's a gap there. Okay, and then we actually did run the low For an external range play But it was just into this gap here. So now we've got above all of the liquidity gaps within this range, we've put in a higher low. Where would we comfortably expect price to move towards? Now we need to look at a larger trading range because we're looking at possibly taking external range plays out of this range into this larger range. Okay, I hope this isn't too confusing. But if I look at this entire range now, I need to look at the liquidity gaps that are untested. And well, this was the gap, okay, here, we came up and we worked, but we still haven't filled it. Okay. So now to me, what do we want to do? We've got the higher low here into an area of inefficiency, we've rebalanced. we now want to look at external range plays of this range back into this larger range because we now have an LG above us that's a logical level to head towards okay we also have an LG slightly above us here okay so now we have two levels again to target close above this LG we go to this one okay simple as that so now let's see what what we get boom so again we could have taken longs from here towards there based on the fact that there's external range liquidity there in this LG now I'm gonna pull this across closed above where are we going oh someone's at the door guys I'm gonna have to pause this for a second Okay, sorry about that. It was my wee delivery for the week. So where were we? Okay, so we've closed above this LG. Where are we going? I know a lot of people will say do not talk in absolutes. I absolutely talk in absolutes now because I want to be certain. I want to be sure of myself. I want to be confident. We closed above there. We are going there. There's nothing else to it, okay? but what did we do closed above rebalance to that level but so as soon as we get this close above our bias is still long and then we just take it to the next LG okay there's no other LGs above us so if we get above this LG okay we go to the high okay we came down rejected higher low where did the higher low come in well there's the LG see we just run the low of it into this lower gap okay I'm not gonna mark all these small ones and we closed above here front around the level levels never get front row okay I've tested this out of a thousand setups like this I think 12 front round so it's minuscule in terms of the percentile but we closed above we came down we rebalanced into this origin which there's a little LGC there because we did close above there and then boom we send it on higher because we closed above that LG and there are no other LGs above us external range becomes the play and then we have to look at a larger range but I understand Bitcoin at this point was going ham and there was no levels above us so it was very hard to look at areas above which is why it was just easier to take runs at highs in bullish environments like in Bitcoin's bull run external range plays for the highs are just going to be the name of the game because you'll be able to let these internal range plays turn into external range plays if you catch a runner. So I've sort of covered what I wanted. Talking through the chart and how we use liquidity gaps excuse me and How we use them for direction, okay and As you can see like that worked perfectly Like every single time and this is why this has such a high strike rate that if you can stick to these rules and be confident ie like let's just clear this whole thing and and we'll get a framework for What's what we're doing? Okay, we can take any range we want. Okay, and again, it's proportionate to the time frame I'm the amount of trade you want but Say we're we come down here. Okay, the 20th of Feb. We're down here We can start marking the LG's That are above us and below us. So for me, I like just having two LG's max. I Don't want to have the chart cluttered, okay So we're with two LG's here now we can look at LG's below us so if that's the low with this LG here okay and that that should do this one's been tested and that's where we actually came down bounced off but so now we've got a framework with two above two below we've seen that's tested and we swept and we came down we didn't get to this level okay and we pushed on we pushed through tested it again higher low and we ran the low okay now this is the larger trading range I'm talking about here but we can look at the internal ranges within the larger ranges if that makes sense so we can play the larger range once we we know that the internal range is lost and we can just continue to do that with whatever range forms okay but in terms of higher time frame direction as soon as this LG gets closed above we know it's a sensitive level why LGC threw it initially test reject test reject but the strength of that rejection was nowhere near the strength of that and it's a higher low that was a lower low okay so this test although that candles a little more bearish than than this one it's the higher though we want to focus on okay into this gap so now we can safely assume that if we get through that level we're going up there and we get above there we're going above the high okay which we did boom boom boom boom boom okay and I'll just maybe a few more examples closer to yeah we'll do current price okay so we came off this high like big sweep okay now what's the range we're in here technically this low to this high so let's get some liquidity caps on now we've one here quite a large one one there okay actually one at a time okay sweep now there was also an LGC reverse or sorry an LG reversal here okay LGC through then we consolidated within the LGC round the high boom close below so we're closing below this liquidity gap here that was produced by the liquidity gap candle we also ran a high and then we close below with an LGC so we're going to rebalance to this LGC now and then possibly roll over towards this gap okay I know it doesn't look like much price movement but if we get this close below here like we could take I think it's two and a half percent there okay that's a trade we come up for the lower high there's another two three percent there and then we just continue doing that but we lost this lgc okay and once we lose this lgc where do we go we go to the next one did we lose this one well what's the high of that candle seven seven nine what's the close of this five two oh we lost it okay we've lost it where do we go we go to the next one okay boom tested boom we lost it what happens when we lose it we go to the next one where's the next one well it's it's here very close okay we also lost it as well so we've lost that where do we go? External range. Okay, we just come up, run the high, boom, expansion down. So once we lose this level, we know we're going external range now because there are no liquidity gaps within this current range. And then we can look at liquidity gaps under the external range play. Okay, here. We go straight there. So we're taking trades from there to there, short, bounce. We tested it. Did we close through it? No, but we ran through it a little bit much for my liking. We came up, we ran another high, boom. Now we close through it there. Here, this candle, okay. Are there any other liquidity gaps? No. So when we close through it, where are we going? We're going external range. Where did we go? External range. Okay. And again, you can just keep zooming out, looking at LG to the left if you want under these. levels but the premise is we lose the LG we go to the next one we lose the LG we go to the next one if there are no LG's within the current range we go under the low or above the high. Why the fuck is that like that? So that and that's the directional premise in a nutshell we want to see runs under lows and above highs okay we want to see internal range plays filling in liquidity gaps within the range and once we get through all the liquidity gaps within the range or we lose liquidity gaps within the range that should hold price we change the flow and we take trades in the opposite direction towards the next logical LG or external range okay hopefully that was insightful I understand I rambled a lot on this might be quite confusing if you're new to LG's but as you can see it works okay runs above highs runs below lows liquidity gaps rebalancing that's that's it okay so we've got the premise of the liquidity gap the LGC comes into that we've got the swing highs and swing lows market structure comes into that and then we've got runs above or below highs and lows or runs into liquidity gaps and that's where we're taking trades to and that's what we're taking trades out of okay so hopefully that was helpful I will be back soon with more videos where we're talking about the failure swing and the false break and then we'll start looking at more specific ways to enter the market using this concept of directional premise with LGs and swings and we'll go from there okay guys so Sorry for the delay on this video and I shall chat to you all soon.