# Transcription: 06 - Failure Swings and False Breaks.mp4

okay guys let's talk about failure swings and false breaks okay so things are now starting to come together and look like a system we have our directional premise nailed on okay using swing high swing lows and liquidity gaps now we want to see high price moves into these levels and high price moves away from these levels okay so we're going to talk about failure swings this is what I call a one two three market structure shift and a false break which is what I call a sweep okay so one two threes and sweeps you'll hear me talk a lot about not so much failure swings and false breaks sweeps and one two threes are the vernacular I'll be using okay so let's talk about them as usual we'll go through these small notes I have and we'll go down and and look at some examples okay so the failure swing or the one two three market structure shift okay a failure swing occurs when prices rebalance fully in a single move without the need to run any relative external range liquidity okay essentially what that means is it just needs one run into a level okay it doesn't need to keep it simple so simple definitions are what we want this is what I call a 1-2-3 market structure shift okay so anytime you see a 1-2-3 or me talking about a 1-2-3 this is what I'm referring to okay it's also a really good way for gauging directional bias on order flow using swings if we're closing through swing lows and maintaining swing highs then it's downtrend and vice versa okay so price runs above or below a higher low into an LG to rebalance okay and this is what this little diagram is is depicting okay we have the old high price is moving up okay We come into the LG and we get a reaction off of it, okay? now When this occurs we have nothing to do We have to wait to see if it runs the high or whether it feels to run high That's why it's called a failure swing. Okay, and if we fail to run the high we get what's called a lower high and Off a lower high we expect a lower low Okay, so in terms of trading this pattern if you want to call it a pattern We can take an aggressive entry from the lower high. Okay. I'm again in subsequent videos. We'll look at entry techniques Or we can wait for the structure shift to confirm the 1 2 3 and then we can take trades in that direction Okay, either at previous level of structure or using again further entry techniques Okay, but that's the 1 2 3. Okay so price fails to break through the initial run okay i.e. lower high in this instance and subsequently gives us a market structure shift of the intermediate swing that formed which is this one okay that confirms a 1, 2 lower high, 3 lower low okay so we've got bearish market structure now so if we come up to previous level of structure if we have ways to get in there we can take it down and this would be towards external range towards the low or if this is a higher time frame possibly into rebalancing levels LGs within okay false breaks or sweeps so a false break occurs when price has run above or below a swing higher low followed by a further run above for an external range run okay before moving in the intended direction this is what I call a sweep, price will run above or below a swing high or low violently and aggressively. This is quite important, I've noticed this quite a lot, that a lot of the sweeps you'll want to see violent moves up aggressively. This is the false break concept that breakout traders get raped in the ass because we get a nice bullish candle but fails to close above the previous high or low. But in this instance we're talking about high so just flip this for bullish scenarios. So this is the career depiction of what I'm getting at. So we want a large wake ideally but any failure to close above the high will constitute a sweep in my opinion. I've tested this so it doesn't matter if it's a dollar or a pep above, if it fails to close above it's a false break. So we've got our old high, similar to here. is exactly the same, the only difference is in what happens after we put in this second swing here. So we've got one swing, two swings, okay, we've got one swing, two swings, and I may have mentioned this before, but the most important pattern in trailing is that, okay, or that, okay, because once we've got that, we know that there's a move coming and we can react, okay, and this is, well, this is exactly why I think this is the most important pattern, because this is how these moves start, okay, anyway, that's off on a tangent. So we've got an old high, we run above it, okay, and then we break down, people start shorting because we've lost this high, and then what do we do? We come up, we take the high, now I've put an LG here, it's not necessary, but a lot of the times we'll see a front run off the LG, this is an untested LG and we front run it and put it. a higher low I would almost long it into the LG okay but I don't want to talk about that in this video so we run up above the high that was put in after running the old high okay and again we want to see a large wick obviously in this diagram I didn't depict wicks but we want to see a sweep okay there and we want to see a nice LG a bullish LG C up into this level as well because then once we lose that LG C the directional premise kicks in terms of LG reversals and we can look at taking things down towards either internal range or external range okay but once we get this high in terms of the aggressive setup we can have entry techniques up here using the sweep okay or we can wait for it to break structure so this was the market structure shift here that confirmed the 1 2 3 this is the market structure shift that confirms that this was in fact a false break or a sweep. Same as this we can look at taking trades now in the direction of this and previous level structure is going to be a level we can look at to take external range plays. Otherwise we can just play internal range until we lose all the LGs we've rebalanced the range and then we can go external. Technically this would be an external run if this was the old high because we're reaching for external range liquidity above it usually into an LG. If you just look left 99% of the time you'll see an LG somewhere because that is where the liquidity is. These ICT folk like to think liquidity is above and below lows and highs. It is to a certain extent but most of the liquidity is actually within the candles, within a range, okay? It's where the most tech volume occurs, which is very easy to see in Bitcoin because we have so much data and it's within liquidity gaps, okay? It's not technically correct saying it's just above and below all those. There will be intermediate lows and highs like this, for example, okay? But it's always within some form of liquidity gap, which is technically internal range in proportion, okay? But that's just me being a smart ass. So that's false breaks, sweeps, and failure swings, one, two, threes. So now let's look at the chart and we'll see a few of these concepts incorporated, okay? So in the previous video, we talked about the LGs and losing. LG's going for internal range and external range so now we're going to Go to the 4r for a directional premise Actually, I'll just go to the recent price because it's probably fresh and everyone's head so oh Yeah, and we're going to 25k by the way So this is a choppy range Okay, it's all Technically consolidation. Okay, although we're expanding down. So it's still downtrend and in my opinion 24 750 is the short-term target once we run these lows But anyway, we're on the 4r chart. So this is where we get our direction. Okay We'll say we'll start okay, we'll start above this high because it's quite easy so previous level structure boom We're above it, okay. So we've put in a 1, 2, 3 bullish market structure shift, however, what range are we in? Technically within the range of this whole move. So then we can start looking at liquidity gaps within this range to see what's going on. Okay. So this, I just wanted to point this out because this is not bullish. Every 1, 2, 3 that shifts market structure is not bullish. Okay. It doesn't mean continuation. What we need to see technically would be a 4, 5, which I'll get into in later videos. But I just want to highlight that because people tend to look at the most recent levels and then go, oh, that's bullish, we're bullish. No, this is the range we're in. Low, high here, down to the low. Okay. So we can start filling in the liquidity gaps. Okay, we have one here. And we didn't get to it. Okay, we have one, tiny one up there. We're nowhere near it. And we have a tiny one up here. Now, if we look at this, move down toward the low, we have this level. Now, this is going to get messy, but hopefully you'll see why I'm doing this. Okay, it's just to give you a picture of what's going on. So, looking at this, given the fact that we're within this range, and that range actually led to a lower low, what are we expecting? We want to see a lower high. Where do we want to see a lower high? We want to see a lower high usually internal range because if it's a higher high that's external range. However looking at this we're talking about failure swings and false breaks so I just quickly want to go over the directional premise and then we'll get down to the 30 minute chart which is going to be the trigger chart where we look for these patterns. So we came off this low, we'll just start here because this is the first reaction, okay. Now we came up to this level, we tested the EQ, inside bar, ran down, ran up, we ran this high and we also ran the high off the liquidity gap, fully filled in but we couldn't close above it. So now I have a sweep here at the liquidity gap, okay, it's internal range of this move but It's internal range of the whole move, but it's internal range of this swing to swing and this is the liquidity gap that relates Okay There was less liquidity gap here, but I don't need to mark it because we already got through it here through it here So we closed above it there and this is what I mean about the LGC Violet move up break our traders think happy days were going up and then we get this ARC the ass rape candle It takes both sides of the range Again it's a bullish close break our traders wrecked because that's only there for an external range liquidity run Okay So we've got now a for our sweep so if I just mark The close of this as the sweep which confirms to me that we couldn't get above this LG I know close so I can safely take shorts here down to where well first level We've got an internal range play here, okay So, if I'm up here and we see this sweep, okay, or the false break, I know that I can safely take intraday trades towards there. If we lose that, well, we don't have any liquidity gaps down there, so the low becomes the target, okay? And again, this is a nice example because price has been quite choppy, and you'll see when price fails to do what we want, okay? So, this sweep gives us the directional bias down, and we can take intraday trades towards this liquidity gap, okay? And for me, I target the EQ and the low if I'm taking it from the upside, okay? I don't really care about the high if I'm bearish because I expect the LG to be wrong, okay? So, we've got that marked. Now, let's go to the 30. That was the 25th of June. now this is where things get even sexier we've got our four levels on that's all we need our directional premise is done okay we know we want to take shorts so now what do we need to look for within this LG well let's look at false breaks okay why look at that 30 minute sweep it's an LG C okay I break our traders one along that we swept the high couldn't close above the liquidity gap we formed a swing and then we got an LG C here okay so to me on the 30 minute chart now we can look at this as a false break okay this on the 30 minute so we can get in using this on the 30 or we can drop down to the lower time frames which I again I will talk about in the future I just want to show this more of all observation of failure swings and false breaks or one two threes and sweeps, okay So now we've got look at this consolidation here small body small body small bodies pop run Okay, we just run into this equity gap nothing to worry about but Closed above the liquidity map liquidity gap. Nope. So we can't take this to the long side We've just got a false break a sweep again further data to suggest that we're not moving higher And we're actually going to look at grabbing the quality lower in the LG that a mark and Yes, so on we just play it like that, okay, so here we've got a 30-minute false break It's also a 4-hour false break at the liquidity gap that has been fully filled. Okay So this to me now I can take shorts on 30 minute or below towards this gap. Now remember I said EQ or the low. So I'm just going to put this on, hide this for a sec. There's my target, okay, from this sweep. So if I, like we close up there, not that I would be taking it based on the sweep, but there's 5% in a day. Okay. Just using the directional premise, the fact that we couldn't get above this LG, it's been fully filled and we got the false break. Okay. Then if we look at the swing that forms, and this is the third count of the swing, this is the first high, lower high, lower high. Once we run the low of the swing, LGC, come up, rebalance, we hit the high, and then we start expansion. Where do we stop at? This gap. Okay. Then we just roll over again, we hit another high, boom. Target is met trade is done one trade one day boom Okay So that's a good example of how Using the directional premise LG's swings and the false break can get us into a trade For 5% intraday Okay, that was 3 a.m. That candle of 338 closed Down here by 12 o'clock midday. We are done for the day. Okay Now again, I said I don't want to talk about entries in this specific video I just want to show examples of false breaks and that was just a really nice one. Okay now Let's Where was that all is for Okay Where were we over crime price woman? Okay, so we've got a nice short there, okay? Now, fuck, I'll put this back on. Take this away. So we've got a short there. We were targeting there. Target was met, but what happened? We closed through it. So we closed through that. We just continued taking shorts, okay? So now, well, actually, what was the high? High was 261. The low, or the close there was 284, okay? So it was the next candle, this candle, okay? Now, this is the directional premise. That was a nice example of a false break, but the directional premise is still down, okay? The target is external range. Why? Because there's no other liquidity gaps here. Now, I know it didn't get there, but this is a good example because. it nothing's 100% okay but let's drop to the 30 and we'll just have a look at this one now okay so we've lost that LG, you can see it was respected on the 30 nicely the candle closed here so everything to the right we wouldn't have seen what happens, we form a swing we come down, we form a lower low okay now we come back up now this low that led to this lower low sorry this high that led to the lower low now got swept what what's this now it's a false break we consolidate it small bodies, small bodies, small bodies then we get really small, low tick volume boom LGC, read the high, break down So there's another instance in which we can use the false break to get into trades, ok. So we take it there, now the target was there, but we obviously didn't get there, but that's why we have take profits and we don't just have single targets most of the time, that even if we lose a trade we still get our break even at the best, or at the worst, ok. So that's another example of a false break, ok. Now let's get back, we'll look at a couple examples of, of failure swings if we can. So what I wanted to highlight here with all these LGs is that, yes this was a nice short here, nice short here, but then we came and we formed a 4 hour swing here, which is technically a higher, a higher low if we take out WET. however the bodies choose low or low but once we get this if i just take these away now they've been talked about okay this no longer see this liquidity up here it's been run through don't need it anymore this one's been run through okay don't really need it anymore got the higher low here nearly engulfed we got an lgc or sorry an arc here took both sides of the range rated the low formed the swing and then we took the high of the third swing with an lgc okay so then now i'm thinking okay we're going to move up where are we going to move up to well we're bearish so we have this lg now that i expect price to stall at we have these as well but like we were almost certainly going to test that i just want this one is that's the last one before the high okay because i want to show you what happens so then we test it we consolidate it boom is that a sensitive level yeah look at the candle again breakout traders are going to get wrecked here soon because technically the trend is still down this is a rebalancing of this entire move okay that's the way I see it so we close above this LG now I don't really like taking counter trade counter trend setups all the time but in this instance once we get this LG C LG C after the swing form which is a higher low I can happily take longs into there and happily know what's counter trend because we can just as easily form a lower high there roll over and then head for the external range okay in this instance we didn't okay so we closed above the LG now what happens when we close above the LG we go to the next one okay Now, there was one there, but it had been tested. Okay, so I don't want to use that one. I want to look at this one, okay? So again, this is where this directional premise becomes effortless, like really effortless, because I just, right, we close above there, we go there. Now, I know we didn't get there, but I'm taking longs in that direction, which is correct. Okay, so we close above there, we retest it. Boom, we head up. My target is there, but we didn't get there. Why not? What's the data? Where's the evidence to suggest we didn't need to go there? We have a high here, we have a high here, okay? Boom. That's technically a false break, because we swept this high. After coming all the way down on the nice V, sweep, front run, buzzing golfing, LGC. That's the confirmation for me that we're back on. bearish and we start looking for internal range plays and possibly external range plays. So this LG isn't as important now that we've got this Bullish engulfing which was also an LGC because then as you saw we just re-balanced quickly and then boom, further LGC, rolled over, lower high, boom. So there's another setup we could take. So let's get, I haven't looked at any of these so I don't know if they're going to be sweeps or 1-2-3s but hopefully one of these will be a 1-2-3 just to show you the difference in a false break and a 1-2-3. Usually sweeps on the 4 do relate quite nicely to sweeps on the 30 so perhaps not but we shall see. Okay so let's go down to the 30th. Okay yeah it was a 30 minute sweep as well. however we'll just we'll form-fit this okay so again candle closed also is a 30-minute sweep and fuck I'm on the 4-hour still Jesus Christ wonders why that swing looked exactly the same right well up this one is a good one okay so we closed here so we don't know what's happening to the right remember but this was also a sweep off a high on the 30 okay but that's the false break however boom from the swing boom boom so if I look at this in terms of failure swing now we run the high you put a one two lower high 3 lower low close, now that is a lower low and that's a lower high but I want to see this LGC. Why? Once we get this LGC, we rebalance into it and then we roll over, that's the failure swing. 1, 2 fails to go above, now this is actually a really nice example because it literally fails to get to the LG above, so we must have grabbed enough liquidity here, there was enough orders sitting here that when we rebalanced to this level, we didn't need the further spike or the further sweep, mainly probably because we had highs here that were spiked into and we got the ARC and then a nice expansion down, then the lower high. So the 1, 2, 3, 1 the initial swing that formed, 2 the lower high that forms failing to get above the high again and 3 the close below the intermediate swing. and as I said with that silly little diagram we look at retests of this level okay so we could use 30-minute false break there to get on board we could use the one two three and retest of previous level structure to get on board okay just going back to the chart where were we 30th we are up here where are we targeting well we have a gap here that was already the third candle in the swing already tested it we ran through it we spiked up but we don't have any other liquidity gaps in there so the next liquidity gap is here I'll just put a line so there's the liquidity gap we're up here this candle has already run through that so it's not an untested LG where's the next untested LG there okay. So now we can take a trade from up here down to when we test there okay. Now let's go to the 30 and we'll see how sexy this is. Fuck I'm not scrolling okay. So say we took a false now I don't full disclaimer I don't just blindly sell sweeps there are entry techniques but say we we marketed that using the false break and our target was the 4 hour LG below us because this one had already been ran through there's 8% okay. 29th of June at 6.30 we hit target 8 a.m on the 1st of July so in less than two days there's another 8% and nothing is complicated. We use the false break if we want to take a retail of previous level structure for example and we take it from there still seven and a half okay so you see how easy this is when we incorporate all of the concepts so we have our liquidity gaps on the four okay we understand the direction based on what is happening around LG's and around well above or below swing highs and lows and then we've got our false breaks and our failure swings now at these levels and once we get them our target is just the subsequent LG or external range if if need be if there are no and there are no LG's internally and technically that would be like if you take this low to that high as a range that's external okay so it's all about how you portray this in your own head okay, and how you incorporate this into your trading But this happens every single time we put a swing in okay if I went down to this one look at that Run off the high okay false break Expansion Two three, it's also Failure swing that failed to get above this high. It's a one two three. Where did we rebalance to? the LG and Then we go on okay Simple as that market does the same thing over and over again We just need to be able to classify these Into specific concepts with specific rules, so we're not just blindly looking at these things. We know that We don't have to get up here because we've got a false break of this high and Then if we drop down to the 30 it was also a sweep. We got a nice will failure swing on a false break so once we get that we can be confident now not with 100% certainty but I talk in absolutes because I am confident in the my ability to trade from here to there using the concepts I've explained okay once we get there then we just have to wait okay because this range now becomes important now there was little liquidity gap in there I'm not gonna mark these I'll just talk through it quickly and then we'll finish this off but there's liquidity gap there close through so where do we go we go up to this one but if I'm still bearish I just want a short here I don't want to long it now we could long it in happily but I know that this is not gonna be an area where you might break down and this becomes the line in the sand for me we close above there we go to this LG we don't well we go to this one first of all this one straight through it go to that one we lose that one what happens we go to this one which is down here and I'll just mark it out we lost it okay there is the lower high lower low okay the one two three and where does the one two three take us if I just mark this now it doesn't quite take us into there what did I say we almost never front on levels so what do we do you just come off from a lower high in this instance if we look at this consolidation here this is a failure swing one two three so now we've got a failure swing here we shouldn't get above that high but now in this consolidation what happened we've got the run of a high high low further run of the high break down. So there is your false break okay there's your failure swing. So in this one if I mark the high fail to get above it okay if I mark this high got above it swept out that level that's a run above a sweep above a high it's not a sweep of a high it's a sweep above a high here okay that's a big distinction that we need to make it's not sweeps of levels it's sweeps above highs below lows okay so that's it I think failure swings and false breaks or one two threes and sweeps as I will be referring to them as okay we used our directional premise there now the reason why I marked these is because if we close above this we go to there we close above that we go to there okay we reject here we probably go back down to here but then we look at the the real ranges and the LGs that form. So once they're lost, we go to the next one. It's a reactive system, as I always harp on about, which means sometimes we'd have to let the price action play out, okay? Because we need to wait for the LGs to form. We don't want to be looking at LGs that happened six years ago, because we're reactive. We want to see what price does immediately after it happens, so we can jump in. Like this, for example. We get a nice fill of an LG, Bullish and Golfing LGC. We know that we can take trades down to the next logical level, and that's at days with the price action, so if we're looking intraday, shorts all day on that specific day, okay? Most of this entire chart is down, and this was a messy area, because we're technically still within the range of this entire move, and this is all just consolidation, but as I said before, we're going under here, and then. Well, just for shits and giggles, let's mark the level we're going to, there, 24k, if we lose that, we go down here which is under 20, which is scary biscuits. Okay I'll leave it there, hope that was helpful guys and I'm happy that we're starting to build a system here so now we can start looking at entry techniques pretty soon and we can start putting this all together and practicing on demo, okay, chat soon guys.