# Transcription: 08 - Backtesting 101.mp4

okay guys backtesting 101 let's go so this is my perception of what back testing encompasses and like everything it's systematic okay so there are two steps to every backtesting process okay and these steps can be repeated as many times as needed okay across as many different pairs and asset classes that you want more data equals more accurate data okay so we'll run through these quick points and then I'll just get to the charts I didn't want to prepare any notes or anything on the charts because that's not the way you backtest you backtest with a blank chart okay and I'll show you how I backtest I sort of just go through backtesting and tie it up and hopefully that will give you the insight you need to start optimizing your backtesting strategies okay so Backtesting with hindsight data versus backtesting without which is replay mode both are just as important as each other for various different reasons in my opinion, okay, so we we have to start with hindsight data because We're we're taking this as a learning curve. Okay, so we're we're looking at this from a Perspective that we have a lot to learn. So there has to be an observation stage okay, where we observe the market we note the behavior around specific concepts that we have and Then we do that until our brain remembers these Levels these concepts these patterns whatever. Okay, and the sharpness of the eye Sort of plays into that as well that you just want to spend so much time on the charts with hindsight data That you start to spot the setups without even really looking for them, okay or spot the the levels that you need or the NLA's okay so that's observation sharpness of the eye they're sort of intertwined with each other okay and then we've got multi time frame confluence so obviously well this is the way I back test because I just prefer single charts if you'd like splitting the screen and doing two charts that's fine this it does make the process more efficient but I'm not trying to make the back testing efficient I'm making it proficient okay I want to get lots and lots of data and I don't care how long it takes because mastery isn't overnight okay so what I really mean by the multi time frame confluence is that if we're looking at and the way we do because it's systematic we have a directional chart which for intraday stuff is for our okay so that's a direction chart but we don't see the trigger chart on the four we don't see the PA around the trigger chart on the 4 until we get to the trigger chart. Trigger chart is 30 minute so there might be a stage where you're flipping between okay and it really depends on your personal preference what I like to do is I'll mark the levels okay all of the levels and then I'll go back and look at the trigger chart okay so I'll do the directional chart first so I can master direction then I go on to the trigger chart so I can master the triggers we need then we go on to the entry chart and we master the entries okay everything's a step-by-step process okay so that's where multi-time frame confluence comes in okay now let's talk about without hindsight data at our disposal which is replay mode now this is it's a different type of back testing but as I said both are just as imperative as each other okay so we've got the hindsight data nailed we've mastered observing the chart knowing the levels marking the levels noting the reactions etc etc now we need to learn how to enter the market and essentially how not to fuck up because you've got the information there in your head you've you've learned it and you've mastered it with hindsight data now you have to go and test that knowledge okay and you're testing execution because you don't know what happens after in replay mode okay so you're testing these observations from hindsight data and now you're seeing if you can execute these things without hindsight data okay because it doesn't take a genius to work out that you don't know what's going to happen next on a live chart and we're betting on probabilities okay so execution is a huge part that most people tend to skip I think that they get a strategy or a system they get the rules they learn and master the rules and then they jump straight into live trading without any knowledge of what actually goes on around the system okay or possibly nuances they haven't picked up on okay so again both just as important as each other execution is huge okay if we can't execute we can't trade so that's that's the big one for me okay especially when we're on replay and this is what I do like every single week this is the way my my schedule is structured so Monday to Friday I'm trading most of the time while trying to fit in little bits of sort of statistical analysis data collection etc but most of it comes at the end of the week okay so crypto doesn't close so it's not like we have a weekend to take off and backtest so we just backtest at the weekends or I backtest at the weekends so what I'll do is each and every week to make this process a little more efficient I'll go through the entire week I've got every setup okay screenshot, note, annotate, whatever and then I'll compare that to my actual live performance okay and say for example that week I took five setups okay one a day which is about what I aim for and there were six setups in the back test then I know that I missed something now it could be a time parameter that I was just asleep which is fine and that's a lot of the time because I only trade specific times but there could be certain reasons that you can gauge from this that say for example you go back on one week and you only spot three setups live but then you back test and you see 12 well then your execution needs work on okay so we go back to replay mode and we just nail execution execution execution okay moving on sharpness sort of it's it's similar to the execution point that we need to be able to execute well okay so you've got to be sharp you've got to be ready and I know replay mode is slower than or sorry faster than the live market because it's normally each one will move one second two seconds whatever but you still need to be sharp so you still need to be able to spot these setups exactly when they occur okay and that's where the sharpness occurs so if we're spotting a setup on replay mode and we're not actually getting down to the entry until the entries already passed then you're not sharp enough and then vis-a-vis you need to work on your sharpness okay and three confidence which again is a huge one because We've built the confidence. You build the confidence with hindsight data. And then you sort of express it with replay mode. Because if you're confident, you shouldn't care what happens next because you know you're betting on probabilities. And the confidence is more in the numbers. So see if you've done this well, confidence is easy because you know you've done the work here, okay? And then the confidence manifests itself in being able to execute effortlessly and being sharp enough to execute effortlessly, okay? So that's that. That's the two. I don't wanna talk too much because I wanna get down to the charts and start marking shit out, okay? But I'll just finish with this little quote I put. Backtesting is a process that is essential for mastery of a systematic approach, okay? That's what I truly believe. If we're trading. systematic approach. Systematic essentially means that it's based on data. How do we prove data works for us? By testing it and while collecting and testing. Okay it's all based on the scientific method. Okay we we ask ourselves questions, we create hypotheses, we answer the questions and then we ask more questions given the further information we've got. Okay but while this is a systematic approach there are psychological factors at play that can only really be worked on without the hindsight data and that's sort of what I was talking about there which is why backtesting is a two-step process, a two multi-step process. Fuck me. Anyway I'll quickly screenshot this and then we'll get down to the charts. Okay so rid of that. let's get down okay now I've worked through this earlier on the the LG reversal video but it doesn't matter and I could pick any anywhere in the chart okay the name of the game here is to collect lots of data okay I had an arbitrary number for data points that I will only trust the system if I have X amount of data points than that that number is 1,000 okay so I need to see 1,000 setups I need to mark them screenshot them annotate them and be confident in spotting them and then what I do is I go and quantify the data I look at the strike rate what's the win rate what's the average win average loss okay what's the max losers in a row max winners in a row okay then that's where my risk profile comes in because I use the data I have to reverse engineer either a dynamic risk profile or a fixed risk profile again that's personal preference and it's more psychological than anything because if you're confident in something you'll bet big you're not you don't okay so psychological aspects to that but without rambling too much let's just get to it okay so talking of the concepts we have we have market structure obviously swing highs and swing lows we have LG's and we know how to trade around LG's okay if they're lost or if they're gained and we know what a false break is now or what a failure swing is okay so a one two three and a sweep so we have sweeps we have one two three shifts we have swing highs and swing lows and we have LG's that's it okay so that's what I'm observing I want to observe the behavior around these levels okay So I'm just going to start here because it's the first thing my eye gravitated towards. So we start marking stuff out. If I start, now think of it like, I know you have all this data here, but think of it like you don't. Okay, so you're here and what you're doing is you're trying to replicate the trading environment. We're doing that by marking the levels, using the levels that we have there to pick direction and then we can drop down and look at the reactions within those levels or at those levels on the trigger charts for further observation and data collection. But I'll try and do this for direction first and then we'll go on. That's the way I do it. We're starting here. So I need to look at this whole swing or the range that we're in. Okay, now just for ease of. like I don't like messy charts so I'm just gonna put lines to highlight the LG being lost or gained because this is a direction chart I'm not looking at specific levels this is just giving me indications on where price is going we're not looking at how to get in yet okay so we've lost that level now if I've lost that level by our rules then I can logically assume that price is going to gravitate towards the next logical level and that's the next LG okay so I mark the next LG so I know that once this closed below my idea was correct and once we closed through the LG for the LG reversal above a high remember or above this high also above these highs that we're going there and we did now what I want to see is did the handle the close 3 get ran above? No. Was there any swings that were rated or taken? No. So this is all data that when we get down to trigger charts we can look and almost think to ourselves well if I know that 90% of the time when the LG gets close 3 we go to the next LG without taking a swing on the opposing side then I can just look for lower highs lower highs on the trigger chart. As soon as we see a lower high go. That's the sort of thought process I'm going through here. And now that we've got here I just mark the candle that closed that actually tested the level. And then what I'll do is I'll mark the close of the candle that closed 3. So now if I take. This, okay, this area, that's the trading area that we're going to be trading on the trigger. Okay, move that down a little bit. So this is our zone to be trading within, okay. And if you want, you can literally mark the high of the candle just to show that that's the high that we really don't want to get above if we're going to go there. In this case, we just got LGC, quick rebounce, LGC, LGC, straight there, okay. So I'll take that away because I don't use that. Okay, so now we've got an area. So we closed through for the LG reversal on the 4R on 30th of June at 5am, okay. Which means from the 30th of June at 5am all the way down to the 1st of July at 9am, we have a short price, okay. that should be noted and Then we just continue to do that all the way for each and every Level that we come to or LG. Okay swing high swing low For above a high we see an LG reversal. We pick the next logical LG for a target and that's our bias until we get there Okay, then when we get to this LG then we reassess because we have to look for other Indications that price might want to rebalance To a specific level Okay, so I'll focus on this first and then I'll get done because I wanted to show you in the 30 what? What I observe here or in the observation phase. Okay, so go to 30th of June So now I've got this boxed off that this was the The close of the four candle that gave us the direction okay, this was the target being hit okay so now if I just take this box away all of the price action within these two horizontal or vertical lines it's the price action that we need to get on board somehow okay so now let's look at our our false breakers I'll just call them one two threes and sweeps our sweeps and one two threes okay so we close there form the swing what did we do came up okay we swept the high and we got a complete nuke okay LGC engulfed everything and engulfed the entire structure new low okay so here I want to mark this now because that's a sweep so now I have a level that if I see a sweep after a retracement after we've confirmed that the direction is now to the shore side then there's there's an entry technique in there on the lower time frame okay so again I'll mark that what happens then push down you come back up okay now we didn't sweep there because that's not a swing I differentiate swings being swept as sweeps and non swings being rated as raids okay so again that could be something you note but for me I'm just noting this sweep we're getting a low you know lower high lower low what does that confirm one two three market structure shift okay so now I've got a sweep of a high okay into this LGC here which there was a gap there okay we just about got into it after running that high we put a one two three in okay so there is your sweep that we can take and possibly trigger an entry in lower time frames or one two three once we get that we've got bearish market structure so when we get the bearish market structure we know that we want to take the lower high that forms okay where do we want to take it well we have a liquidity gap in here now or we had a liquidity gap in here okay so it would have been here okay we put in the one two three you get a bullish push up retest the level okay after filling the gap okay so we fully filled the gap line we're thinking that okay this could be it we test it and then we come up for a further sweep okay so again just like here on the lower time frame there'll be a an entry technique there okay If you've taken the 1, 2, 3, return to origin. Now this origin's huge, and this origin is within this one, so the origin has to be this huge candle, okay? It's also an LGC, so any sweeps within this candle, we're taking. There we go. And here, where's our target? Our target's there. Here, our target's still there, okay? So if we take this sweep as a trigger, and we get an entry, there's our target. If it starts to bounce, you can take some profit here, but then see once we get this again, back in balls deep, full risk, boom, there's your target. Sales the target, and then that's the trade done, we move on to the next one, we reassess, okay? So that's how I do the direction, or the multi-time frame confluence, so direction down to trigger chart. And then if we want it, we can go to the entry techniques, which I'm not gonna talk about because I haven't. put the video out on those yet, okay so we swept there we swept there it's a lower high sweep after a 1-2-3 bread and butter that sweeps a little bit messy because that candle I guarantee you wouldn't have got an entry there but you've got a great entry there within the origin if you take this as the origin okay but we're using the 1-2-3 sweep and the fact that we lost the 4 LG as an indication that that's where we're going so all we need within these two lines is a trigger this is why it's a trigger chart there's a trigger there's a trigger so we may have got a nice trade there but if we didn't there's one there and then we take that like we even retested a nice rounded retest of the origin again there's 5% if that's a 5 minute chart with an intertake technique that could be six or seven or okay if that's the way you like to quantify your data okay so we'll get back to the fore and i'll just go through direction now so you have a picture of what i do and how i do it now so your chart should look a lot like this where you have vertical lines boxing off specific price excuse me specific areas of price that you've used this direction and this is your trading zone per okay so you're trading within these two vertical lines and then you do the same like here if i stick on so there's another three zero reversal will be anything else of note well there's a sweep as well okay so again three zero reversal it closed through there it closed through there where do we go who's there right so then we mark So, now this one's a bit shite because it literally happened straight away. But again, if I go around to the 30, I said I wasn't going to do this, but we have an area to trade within. What are we looking for? Sweep or a 1-2-3, okay? We had this sort of rounded retracement, swing high here, and swept it, okay? Now, that is, well, for me that's the only logical sweep now. I'm just going to do this because I know someone will point it out. That's a sweep, yes. But see all this efficient price action? That's not the sort of thing we want to see. We need to see some sweep. of spike okay it's above this swing high and well with LGC's then we start getting quite efficient so all we really need to see is a run of a high followed by a breakdown if you had taken this one for example as your trigger you may not have got a lower time from entry anyway okay but sweep selection is going to be something that you can work on sweeps do occur quite frequently but we're within this box of these two lines so we know exactly where we want to trade to or sorry and like what location as in we're trading from 5 a.m here and the setup to our target would have been hit at 12 30 okay so we could possibly look at getting a London setup but the real setup there came in new york open okay 11 30 12 open and we immediately hit target. So I'm going to take this away. Again, there's a possible entry trigger where we can drop down to a lower time frame for entry. And so on. So we just continue to do this. Your chart will look, it'll just be completely lambasted with lines and colors. And I like to color coordinate because I know what I'm looking for then. Reds for me is sweep, pinks LG, okay? Gray, everything else. But I had specific colors for very specific swings and sweeps and 4R, 3CRs and 30-minute 1-2-3s, but it just got too much. So to keep it simple, LGs. I would highly recommend this. I think it is helpful, especially for the sharpness and the eye. test. Pick a color for what you want to see for an LG reversal or an LG even. Pick a color for a sweep, pick a color for a market structure shift. That means that when you're back testing, you can start if you just, if we zoom out and we're something like this, we can still see that right, that LG was lost, we went there, there must have been an LG gain, lost there, lower high boom. We can see where the LGs are occurring. So then when we look at a bigger picture, we can start to see patterns emerge that, oh shit, every time I see this particular price movement, we get an LG reversal and so on. But maybe that's being a little neurotic about it. So we move on. Okay. So we got the LG reversal. It was after a sweep. Okay. Now things to note here, there was no sweep there. Why? You know why? Because it was putting in a higher low followed by a further run whereas this sweep was confirming that that was the top and we're actually going to run the lows i.e. external range. So no sweep, probably a rebalance as long as the market is underlying bullish in this instance. Higher low then we take longs from here using the concepts but this sweep may indicate that that might be a lower high if that's expansion. So where's the expansion going to go? Under the lows for external and then we can start looking left to see where the gaps are on the other range. And these are all things that you can note that this was a lower high sweep, it also filled a gap. So to me that's bread and butter. We've got a breakdown, we lost this LG, we came up the rebalance to the area of inefficiency i.e. the LG, we didn't get above the LGC high and we swept at that level followed by a bullish engulfing, bread and butter 99 times out of 100 that'll be a winner okay and it's not just because of a 4 or sweep but an LG it's because of everything that's happened and almost the narrative that you've created based on the concepts and your understanding and comprehensive of the market okay so just put that there so it's not so we got the LG reversal what happened afterward well we hit our target we lost it so then we lost it we're expecting to still have a short bias once we roll over again okay so there is an LG reversal here we're short biased So as soon as we close above, we either scalp countertrend towards the next LG or we wait. This is where patience becomes the name of the game. I prefer to just wait because the higher probability plays are in the direction of the trend. And you can see that easily. If you get a long for there, why wouldn't you take a short there when we did that. Always go with the trend if you can and if you're confident and you're happy with a system that includes countertrend trading, fill your boots but you don't need to. You can make enough money with one trade a day by just being patient. You've got to wait for this shit. There'd be days like today for example, I didn't trade. Now I was doing a little bit of other work but I'm happy to sit here all day and just not take a trade.  4.30 if the trade comes along, I am balls deep. And filling your time can be difficult, but that's why traders need hobbies. But anyway, back to back testing, fucking rambling. So we're noting everything we see. We can note, like I just like going through the chart because we've seen this, right, LG reversal. Did it go to the next logical LG? Yes. LG reversal, did it go to the next logical LG? Yes. So now we can start to paint a picture, okay? That, well, that was another LG reversal technically there, but then we came up for the lower high. Once we get the LG reversal, do we go to the next logical LG? Well, where's the next one? Yes. So now we're painting a picture, but we're also collecting data. So three out of three reversals at these levels have given us what we wanted to see. So in my head, I'm thinking, if I see an LG reversal and I can guarantee with 90% certainty that it goes to the next logical LG, then my entire system is going to revolve around mastering that specific concept. And that's all I've done, that LGs are everything. And it's because I focused on them and I don't care about, like, see if Bitcoin goes, like, I don't know, to 34K today. I'm not going to be pissed off because I can get as much money as I need out of the market through one setup. The price doesn't matter, okay? Anyway, LG reversal, did it go to the next logical level? Yes. LG reversal, did it go to the next logical level? Well, there's an LG in there, but we closed above it too. So did it? Yes. LG reversal, I'm going to start speeding this up because I've rambled for too long. LG reversal. So did that go to the next logical level? Well, let's see this high. Six, four, nine, six, six, three. That's a gap. So did it go to the next logical level? Yes. And we lost it. Did it go to the next logical level? Yes. But there's no gap in there, it's filled there. So no gaps left. We've closed through there. We've now got an external range play. Close to the level. Did it go external range? Yes. Now, this is a key level now. So we get the LG reversal here. Did it go to the next logical level? Now, remember it's a downtrend. So the next logical level, as I said, the LG here, but it's not really an LG because it was filled straight after. The next logical LG is technically up here. Did we get near it? No, but what did we do instead? What did we do instead? Sweep. Okay so out of all of these LG reversals on the 4R or directional time frame every single one or this one has done exactly what we wanted to do. So now this is where we're building confidence in the hindsight data. So now see if I see a live chart and I see an LG reversal well all I need to do is again just box it off and work out where we're going where we're coming from and we have our our entry triggers or our triggers and then we have our entry triggers on top of that okay. So LG reversal to the upside shorts are off the table until we reverse back down okay boom LG reversal do we go to the next logical level gap in there yep but we lost it we lost it with that candle so where do we go external under the load. Then we got LG reversal, shorts back off the table now. Boom, came up, higher low, came up. And what did we do again? We swept. Okay. We swept, we also got an LG reversal, so where do we go? The next logical level, there's no levels in here, no LGs in there, so the target becomes external. Close through it, what happens? No LG reversal this time, so this is just continuation. Okay. Then we get down to this low. Now, this is why I'm long passed now, because we closed above that. Quick run, expansion. Where are we going? To the next logical level. Where's the next logical level? Technically it's up here, but for me, I think we're going here. I can test that by using hindsight, but I can also look at, I've noted this live. So in a way where we're working with our hindsight here, but I don't want to talk about the current price actually because this is backtesting. Okay. So I did quickly run through that at the end there, but I'm looking at direction here. So now I've got a clear picture and I know I only did like two moves there, but see if you do that and you collect, actually, I'm just going to give you a number, collect 250 data points on this based on direction. Okay. That will give you enough data and I feel that would instill enough confidence in your ability to spot this and to stick to your guns. that it can now be used as your directional time frame and your directional premise okay. Then we can look at what's occurring at these levels because as you can see this level was used here to confirm downside but it's also used here to fill a gap and confirm a rejection and a reversal okay. So all these levels can be used as support and resistance you can see close through close to this one like this close through here confirms that we're going external because there's no more gaps and we're going into this gap but it doesn't mean straight away so when we come up back up to this level the LG reversal level again we just need to see some form of trigger on our trigger time frame. So then we can start to note okay LG reversal did we come and retest the LG reversal level well yes after losing this so as I said on the LG reversal video see this sweep is the best trade you will ever take in your life we've lost the LG there reversal we go there but once we've lost that we know that we're going here okay so see this sweep here you have to be confident and take that all day if you see that okay we've lost one LG we've lost two LGs we've got a third one below us that was front run here front run a couple of times there but we can see the reaction at this price point sensitive level okay there's so many factors that this sweep here should take us there okay here we didn't quite get the sweep but a sweep at this level would be exactly the same as a sweep at this level because it's an LG reversal level so now you're starting to paint the picture but you're also starting to make that picture a lot clearer where you can start to literally create exact rules around one one facet of the market you can take a retest of an LG reversal level and a sweep at the level for your trigger that's that could be an entire setup that makes a lot of money and it can make careers so it's all about what you want and the backtesting process well it is pretty black and white you'll find that a lot of people sort of change their perception of the market when they're backtesting because they start to almost subconsciously spot things that they didn't before like that for example if I had just had that there and I just if I just had that LG reversal and then this swing this swing and a sweep you could take that all day every time you see it it'll happen all the time we got one there okay boom another retest we could be down to the 30 looking for the sweep okay and here was another reversal here okay now we closed below and retested it immediately but what did we do we still came back and what happened we swept okay so now this setup here at the LG reversal level is exactly the same in terms of the fractal nature it's this one okay so now there's a setup there and it's a four sweep that's a four sweep that's at an LG reversal level so is that okay and then the the LG reversal here so the double confirmation that that confirms then the double confirmation here would be that candle there and that confirms again that's not a gap it's already been filled so we're going external so as soon as that candle closes through is the LG reversal again we're short the whole way down okay until we get there and then we reassess okay so LG to LG per se internal or external and then as soon as we get the target met then we reassess okay I'm trying to think if I've missed anything I'm gonna do refilm this this is so all over the place I think of my head's just fried at the moment but I'm looking forward to getting a proper back testing video I think this is just maybe an introduction to back testing I'll call this and but it's all about observation as I said at the start, observation, and then the confidence and the execution, the sharpness, it all comes with, without hindsight data. But this is how we learn, okay? Because I wouldn't know that I can take an LG reversal set up with a sweep at the level without marking this out and without getting 250 data points. And I could go back years and collect them or I could do it on different pairs, whatever. One thing I will say about backtesting is, with TradingView, especially if you're not on the higher packages, and if you're looking at backtesting lower timeframes, they don't have the historical data. So because I truly believe the markets are fractal and I believe in the mathematical expression of financial markets, I trust in the fractal nature so I can. test anything as long as it has the same mechanics as the asset I'm trading. What I mean by that is Bitcoin can be traded. Now with crypto there's a liquidity issue that the lack of liquidity does sometimes skew the results because we get Darth Maul wicks or we get price reaching for like orders that are so far away because the the books are so thin but again that can all be noted so I like to just back test similar volume pairs okay bitcoins obviously the the king but I will happily test Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, LINK, DOT you know that the popular higher volume coins I'll test them all the same way and I'll collect the data for the sort of basket of them assets okay so when like 250 data points might sound a lot and as you can see from 30th of June until today we got one two three four okay so in three weeks we got four setups so you're gonna have to test forever to try and get 250 but if I do four on Bitcoin for an aetherium or I just say I do 50 on Bitcoin 50 on aetherium 50 on link 50 on dot 50 on litecoin then I have 250 data points for the mechanics of a systematic trading strategy which is all you need okay all these retards they talk about market conditions changing and etc etc it's all bullshit market works the same way it always has since 1900s or 1900 so don't let that put you off if you can't seem to find the data points okay like even just looking at the price you could do this with your USD and it would still work the same way but with the liquidity that a Forex pair has it's a lot cleaner don't get huge works like this again going to the aggregation that has to reach fucking forever to find liquidity down here same with this that's because of a lack of liquidity in the market okay so these sort of things can be noted and you can add them into your rule set if you want I don't this the strike rate on my strategy at the moment it's I think it's like 81% if I take a setup that includes a dot ball it's just a loss my strike rate might drop to 78 percent but I'm still happy with that so I'm happy to for ease of use to not create a rule around that because it's just a loss at the end of the day, okay? So I'm gonna have to cut this now and I will film another one because that was just so all over the place and chaotic that it's frying my brain but we'll call it an introduction to backtesting and possibly at the weekend I'll run through a bigger backtesting video and I'll put some notes in place and I'll have a step-by-step process that you can note down and learn. Okay guys, I'm off for the day, I shall chat to you soon.