# Transcription: Live Tape Reading July 30th, 2024 [xFJseyHDVBU].wav

It's a dreidel. Oh, man. All right, so it looks like we did move to these lows yet, but haven't taken them yet. And we still have news in a few minutes. If I miss a brick market, I walk myself out. Let me turn this recording. Oh, never mind. Already turned it on. Look at that. 53 minutes and I'm reading that to the viewers. I'm reading that to the people who pirate and come on. Oh We might just have enough money to put in a new high I Still think these mm's are absolutely incredible No one can can No, we could convince me otherwise I know people are always trying to People are always trying to trade the On market structure break or wait for price to come back for of something and all of that. And the MMs are just like so crazy in that, you know, you don't wait for anything until it gets there. And when it gets there, it's like, oh, all right. You know, no matter if I do, sure. Yeah, okay, I'll take a little scalp or two. There's literally, and I went on this whole campaign and telling people not to eat M&M's because of how bad it was for them. Got all that red 40 and yellow three and six and all of that stuff that we feeding our kids with it. Now, here I go talking about MMs are life. Yo, yeah, exactly. Even if not for entries, MMs for narrative is crazy. Exactly, 100%, 100%. 100%. You many times I've been in this long trying to trade to the previous candles high and the MMM go, I'm sorry, sir. Do a double sweep. Did you forget about that? I love it. It it keeps you in check. It keeps you in check. You you are accountable. Did it hit these lows yet? Let me just not yet. You Hmm Because that break Was before news 30-second candle is showing my candle And 30-second even though the news hasn't yet the 30-second is showing my candle So, let's see So, let's see Ran I mm low but remember I put this line here, this one, and this one here. Alright. 10.02, so we're getting ready to have a nice scalp back up. I think to, let me just double-check. I'm gonna be back here. Here. and to two so it could actually be not there since this isn't there hmm hmm uh let me just leave this if a move to some of us at a ten o'clock uh... we get that an a clock handle right here right remember I said we can trade below it right and then back to it right and in the event that we trade above it we could move back around to it like that and then move higher off of it there that was the scenarios that I were given with either scenario for whether it ended up being bullish or bearish you know after the candle prints there's some sad red bull the movement I think I think they don't have any participants everybody really already got you know you know your brain to prioritize MMs with a 50 zone top above works like crazy. Yeah, that's what I was trying to let people know. If you see an MM, it breaks, manipulates into your zone, your unmitigated zone, and then trace back into the range. That's the whole MM video that I taught on the FOMC stream. I was cooking. Bro, I needed six months to see this, and that is true. That came by way of, imagine how many weeks or months you might have spent going off of your own understanding, instead of just really taking in what the person was trying to tell you to look at. It's like, oh, let me make a video. mix this with that, and then that with this, and then this with that, and then you have trouble seeing all of it and, you know, operating within it. Like, that's, it's very important. Or to feel, hey, hey, listen, you know? I rushed and didn't digest. Y'all hear that? That's beautiful, and I'm glad that Jack is saying this because a lot of people were upset when I, when I, you know, was running the mentorship and I was as tough as a nail, and that's because I realized that there was a lot of people who were just not honest with their journey, not really telling the truth about, you know, what it is that they were doing, not telling the truth about their entries and why they were actually getting margin called versus, like, are you actually getting margin called by the system, or are you actually getting margin called by, you know, just not following? the rules of the system, those things, both of those things, there were people who didn't wanna be honest with that. So at that time, I was just like, my hands was off people that were like that. I don't even wanna hear anything from you. You can just enjoy the rest of this server and then leave when you want. I told Jack that too. Y'all could look at it in the Discord. I said, enjoy the rest of this server. You don't wanna listen to what I'm saying, that's fine. I can't waste my time with you. It's one of me and then hundreds of people and then thousands of people right outside of this. And I can't, you tie my hands when you don't listen to what it is that I'm asking you to listen to. It's going to help you more than me, I promise you, but just get to the place where you can follow it. Get to the place where you can listen. Whatever it takes, just do it. You know? And I'm sure Jack felt the way when I said that. that, you know, but I did reinforce something at the time and I wanted to see him respond to it. I gave him exactly what to do and it was stuff that we weren't even doing in mentorship. Told him go back to the free playlist, not even the stuff that's here, go to the free playlist because what are you doing? And, you know, looking at what he's saying now, it shows. I see it in his charts. He says things before I even say it. I could think it and then look in the chat and Jack is saying it, you know, so that shows that he really turned his own trading around by just following the rules that he was given, you know, and I believe that Jack did right by his family, right? Did right by his reason why, you know, and now you'll forever. be able to, you know, have that reward with you for the rest of your life. All because you what? You took a leap of faith and listened, right? In an industry where they tell you in order to survive, don't listen to anybody. I know, that's what's in this industry. In order to survive, do not listen to anybody. That's what you hear mostly. So it's very difficult to give up that control totally to someone else when it's your money that, you know, you have to get used to using. But, you know, he turned it around. And again, him, you know, like I mentioned with Sir Luck, couple of people here, you know, it didn't always start on a good foot, but it doesn't have to either. It doesn't have to either. We come from different places, different cultures. We talk in different ways. I get it. The way I talk is tough. I know. I'm sorry. I grew up having to do this, right? Growing up in New York, anybody that grows up in New York would tell you this, but maturity knows that, you know, you have to leave environments like that. It's not great to raise kids in those environments, but you know how you had to grow thick skin, right? You know, you had to grow tough to live in those environments, right? And all you had to do is silence the noise and get the job done, whatever the job was that day. So even if I was growing up with violence around me or whatever it is, guess what? I was still going to school. I was still making sure that, you know, when it came time to go to college, I'm gonna do that every day. Every day. My parents didn't know anything about college at all. Didn't know anything about, you know, signing me up for whatever. I did the whole process myself. And on top of that. I had no money when I first walked when I first went to college. I had no money at all zero dollars Zero my first day of school And my first day of school I walked two and a half hours to get to school Just because I was so excited And I had people that were sabotaging me Family wouldn't take me there wouldn't you know, you know, I signed up for this. You're aware that I have nothing i'm i'm Still young trying to get it all together, but that didn't matter There no wasn't something that dictated whether I finished school or not It was that I was determined And whatever it took I always said that whatever it took i'm going to do this I don't care what anybody says i'm determined you crazy me and camp Does not exist You cannot put that in the same sentence So the you know, kind of the attitude I always have with anything that I was learning, even if it was like Call of Duty or something, you know? And that, you know. You went to a CUNY college? Yeah, yeah, I did. But this was in a different town. So, you know, with the boroughs, the boroughs is split up. The boroughs are like their own, you know, many cities or so, and they have their little towns within it. So this was on the other end of the borough. So I walked from one side of Queens all the way to the other side of Queens. Just to get there the first day. And went with whatever resources I had. It didn't matter if, you know, I was given nothing. I was gonna make something out of it. I was gonna. make myself proud. I didn't care about anybody else. And some of y'all gotta take on the same mindset when it comes to trading, when it comes to anything that you're doing out there, right? It's not for anybody else but you. And as to the young kids, for those who have families, that's a different message, right? You know? And I think I've been clear on that one. I went to SUNY, what a waste of time. I don't even know where my degree is. Somewhere. I don't even know. And hey, I mean, I mean, get it, you know, if you in school, get it, you know? You already did. Finish it. Why you gonna quit? Are you crazy? Finish it. You already set out to do it, just do it. Finish it. Complete it. Don't be the person. Hey, listen. Guys, I've met so many people around the country and around the world and I've seen that the biggest issue that many people have who are not yet in their careers is stagnation. And what do I mean by that? I mean that there are those people who they start something, they're always willing to take the risk, right? To start something, but they don't complete it. They don't finish it. So they keep pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing to do something else to figure out how to get where they're going. But all they're doing is just watering everybody else's grass out there other than their own. How do you expect to eat from your own ground that you're not taking care of? How? So I realized that stagnation was it. It's, oh, you have that mind that you know something is out there, but it needs to be directed in... all of that energy needs to be directed into somewhere in particular, right? So, you have a lot of people who are stagnant in life where they start something new and they stop it before completing. Start something new and stop it before completing. Start something new and stop it before completing. I used to be that way too. And the way that I got around that was making sure that I completed everything, right? I had to change. So what did that change, where did that change actually come from? The routine of things, right? Why am I getting out of bed and not spreading my bed? Why am I eating half of this and then throwing it away? Why am I drinking half of this and won't even, why did I just put it in the garbage then? Why am I taking leftover food that I know I'm not going to eat tomorrow and put it in the refrigerator? Why not just throw it out now? Why am I waiting until tomorrow to throw out the garbage if I can just do it right now? You know, like that's the mindset that I had to take on in everything that I was doing. Everything that I was doing. And, you know, the benefit just, you know, took everything that I put my hands on to another level. If you hear people who grew up with me from young, you always, you know, hear them say, you know, that guy, he always had this, this, this thumb that can turn anything into gold. You know, that's how you hear them explain things that I do, but it's not that, it's not me. I don't have no special abilities. I don't have no special powers that other people don't have. This is just something that you develop. Be a problem solver. That's what the elderly women around me told me. Women who were like 80, 90 years old when I was growing up around them, they told me to be problem solvers. They told me that I need to make sure, right, that if there's a problem, you can feel whatever way you wanna feel about it, right, but address the root cause. That's how you stop it from occurring again. These were some wise ladies that I was around, you know? And, you know, that impacted my life for the better. That impacted my learning for the better, right? And then I sort of fashioned any other way that I lived, you know, around that. This M.M. is just really, they just, getting clapped up there. So you have this break, you have this other high that put in this high here, the wick up above there. And that's where the low came from. But we're also around this little M.M. right here. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I. Could also say this fractal is the mm. Let me just see how many touches it has yeah the fractal is mm So it's there You know this is the sweep right So with this actually coming down here if We do dip a little lower. You don't want to use that as a zone You want to wait for that other sweep to then move us back into there? You Good time is it 1020 so Where's 10 o'clock at 10 o'clock is here. This is You see how we traded back towards 10 o'clock, we went up above it, traded back in, and then traded higher off of that 10 o'clock area. But then we, yeah, traded back in and traded higher, but then we traded back here again. So if that ends up taking us lower, then we look for that five minute model to trade back to 10 o'clock. But if it ends up moving us higher, then we look for the five minute model to trade back to 10 o'clock. And that's just all you do on the other side of 10 o'clock, usually it's like 10.40, 10.50 or so. I'd say 10.50, 11 o'clock if it's closer to that, but that's usually what we get. So when people are fighting this on the inside here, and trying to figure out what price is actually doing within there, and they don't know how to read it, right, it would be best for them to just act as if it doesn't exist. and these colors are getting worse and worse. Yeah. It would be best just to act as if it doesn't exist. There's no reason for you to be fighting anything within there if you don't necessarily know how to trade it. If you look at below it, below it is a sweep and a second MM sweep, right? And above it is an MM sweep up here, right? So a lot of the times people are getting killed trying to find the direction, right? You want it to go higher or you want it to go lower and you're taking up a position somewhere within there. And if you're not that experienced to be able to trade that way, then you just want to consider the opposite. So we can go to I am V Missy so we still haven't gotten that 70 at 149 yet. Oh You're talking about from the the the move down right the internal Talking about there Yeah, right there so since we respected that 50 you saying I am be right You セキュリティを表示するために、 セキュリティを設定するための セキュリティを選択します。 セキュリティを設定するためのセキュリティを 設定します。 セキュリティを設定するためのセキュリティを 設定します。 セキュリティを設定するためのセキュリティを 設定します。 セキュリティを設定するためのセキュリティを 設定します。 All right. Hey, Felix, what a chart that is. Yeah, this man is scalping like... Wow. Yo. To a 1 to 223 Taking 10 points on average. Hey, that's cool. Listen, so people love to talk about like Oh take a three to five our trade. You only need one trade a week all of this other stuff, you know I understand all that but people just if they do the math, you know, like You you can get three are in three one-to-one entries, you know, so I'm just like wow, you really want to sell you some short for the three are Hmm Oh for a week Hmm Yeah, exactly, exactly. But what I'm realizing now, I'm looking at the landscape, and these are kids who are influencers, who are taken care of by their parents. They're going to have a different attitude about it. They're going to have a different outlook on how much time you should put in for things and all that other stuff, because their life is not dependent on it. They don't have people that are dependent on it, right? So I could understand why the message is different coming from there. But for those who do not have that kind of luxury, right, and who want to create that kind of luxury for your kids, it's best not to listen to those kids. I Don't know I can't see anything But this this is literally how You know people are getting cooked up in in that area there right you just saw all of that take place and then You have no sweeps on the inside or you have you know No zones or or even narrative is saying something different, right? The the second sweep right the that we're anticipating or trading back into the origin of the move, right? Or hitting the 70% of the zil over here, right? You know like all of those different things as far as narrative is concerned still Sort of says that it's looking for below here But in the same sense, you know You want to follow what price is currently doing and you just want to wait for it to do what it's gonna do So seeing anybody in longs should not entice you to take a long seen anybody in shorts should not entice you to take a short either you should just essentially not you but i'm talking about people in general should should just wait for this setup and time it a little better i'm trying to get out of the retail cemetery uh... yeah yeah i think that's one hundred percent uh... looks like we're going for that low And if this is going to reverse, you want to see that strong wick get tapped in, right? And then move back up above that previous candles high to now tap back in and move higher. And these are the kind of candles that I like to see heading to, my zones or heading in them. Because a lot of the times that candle with a wick at times can prompt a reaction to go to the high of that previous candle. Actually, where are we? Oh, this, oh, okay, okay, okay. This is, this is the FOMC range that I taught you guys about sometime last year, or maybe it's in the FOMC video, I don't remember. But this is the FOMC range, whenever we have a larger, larger news event that usually sends the market like CPI or something like that. That entire week, we often range in that week, right? So yeah. know what you guys end up seeing is thursday's low right here right that that came from here and then you saw us push higher to the top of the range but the amount of times you saw us trade down back into the lower portions of the range you'd see that every time we got back into those lower portions we ended up moving back into the higher portions of the range so um this is something that clearly has been occurring since the 25th or so um and this is you know where we are so within this smaller range here right so let me show you the larger range the larger range is here there and there that high right but there's a smaller range that we have within here what is the smaller range we have low right here right you see that that low here did not take out this low to the left here but it did sweep an internal low and trade back in this hit the 70 so that looks like it's the 70 to the 30 that just took place and this does have a sweep of internal structure but not not external so I'm bouncing on that and having that strong push back in you know made a lot of sense because of what it did back here but also noting that this is just the bottom of the range and what's up here gives that the top of the range So remember we said that there's one POI that price is often ranging in. There's one POI above and below. So the POI below is here, that's this down move into this low right there. And if we bring it across, some of the other days should tap to it. So it looks like another tap is in order here at 116. And that's how we use higher time frame to lower time frame. So when we get like somewhere down here, you know, there's the, from here to here, there's the nice move back in. to potentially the previous rings that we have here and this is all being rejected out of this mm here yeah so there goes your IMV cow yeah where I'm thinking about trading them back to here Because this is an mm So you have that low taken there we tap into it And you hit another one there hit another one there, and then we trade away, so whatever move Looking to lunge back up. I could be looking for the bottom of that at 192 Oh, he's anticipating a little high in the direction he's going after 1030, yes, yes. Yeah, at least one more. Yeah. Mm hmm. I know the range bounce, or where these ranges have been playing off of the higher time frame ranges. We'll just come back to that. Thank you. クレームチーズの上にクリームチーズをのせます。 クレームチーズをのせます。 in the I'm immune to those little tiny wick taps touches. Oh, maybe that there that there could just hit that. You know, I'm immune to that. I oh, there's an imbalance there. I don't even I ain't even see it my bad Nice nice nice naughty, but uh With that I want people to pay more attention to where I Took this from you know like what? What the idea? surrounding Finding a little small entry within there Comes from Now obviously you know that this is the first one down right so when we push up off of that The way you manage is going to manage as if this is toilet paper people and price is going to come back for them If they don't come back for them, that's fine, but you wanna manage as if your entry is a part of that, but you're also unsure of whether you could, you know, take the entry back to this area here. You wanna make sure that your management practices are sound within there, right? Because in the event, if even if it, like let's say it moves lower again and then pushes higher off of it, right? You still have another entry there, but if you're tied into holding an entry from up here and it's trading down like that, you have to pray to every God on earth that it's gonna go back up there. And it's better just to understand that when you first get into these entries and you are the first one leading that reversal out, that first one needs to be prioritized as either a scalp or you need to have a management system that's sound and not 100% thinking that, yeah. Because I got it at the 50% of here now it has to go here it has to go there You still want to have management on your side because at the end of the day when it starts to like Ferociously move out of that area or whatever you have to understand that you have ways to get in right? But you don't want to trade as if you don't Because then it's gonna be very hard for you to get money out of this market If you don't learn to let go of certain positions if you don't like learn to let go of certain styles of trading so where this essentially is is you know coming from for me is just shared with some of the other ideas that You know, I've already taught you guys in some of the other videos. So Obviously that that can't all be explained every stream because that you know Makes it a bit exhausting, but you want to make sure that You understand where you are within your range remember that Asian session I told you guys about the ranges the larger ranges the smaller ranges, and how in certain weeks we range in Go and watch that Asian session video, and it'll catch you up to that Stop that be so this this is why I mentioned to you remember what I said when you take an entry here That previous candles high is a great exit, and that's usually where my first target is right and then the second one would be Obviously you're gonna do that right You see with a 30% hit hit the 30% and trade it back there, so if you understand that below here You need to make this your partial point or something within here to pay yourself, so what you? You need to make this your partial point or something within here to pay yourself, so what you? You can't do it you could re-up that profit to risk within there. You know, at least that's my thinking, you know, you guys don't have to trade that way, but that's just what I think. I see some people say, oh, I got taken out. And then they just like find it difficult. They believe it's difficult to get back in. And I'm just like, so what were you trading? Were you trading the move? Or were you, you know, just trading that scalp? Or like, where was price coming from, you know, for you not to know whether you could have got back in the same move or not. Now, again, this is not for you. I'm just saying in general, this is, you know, things that I've heard. And then I'm explaining the way that I, you know, often execute. I took a short because of the homework, took profit at that fracture. Hey, beautiful, beautiful. Love to see that, beautiful, beautiful. 10 points is enough to pay me, hey, I mean. and some people don't really know that. 10 points on five micros is a hundred bucks. I'm telling you, I was hitting 100, 200 bucks per trade. At one point, I was just doing $20 per trade because if I'm gonna do $20 per trade, let's say I take a trade now in this hour, I do $20. The next hour, I can do $20 again, or maybe even more than that. The following hour, I can do whatever it is again. And it's just these little points in price that I'm exposing myself to rather than trying to hold for these outrageous moves, manage, and waste my mental capital and stuff. I'm just like, oh, a little tap right there. Okay, yeah, take that. And that was two points, mind you. It was two, three points when I was doing that. So. I was looking for the 50 and took the BE. Mm, okay, okay. I mean, remember what I said. Where's, somebody remind. Give me that. Who was it? It was yesterday. I think it was Katady. I had missed the move and they were like, that's okay. You can just take the, the buy stop with us. But it is, it is true. Like there was a little buy stop there. I told you to come back to test those buy stop highs. Cool. They trade higher there, right? There's a little buy stop there that moved you into profit there too, you know? So in w when you're playing the move, you need to understand how to get involved in that move. Right. And those things, I believe I already, you know, taught you. Listen, I believe that you should get paid based on your performance, you know, I'm sorry for the people who, you know, just want to sit and be comforted in jobs that they have and not do much, but I believe that you should get paid on your performance. I used to put in 10 times the work and get the same pay as my co-workers, or they used to get paid more than me because they have more years, but I was doing most of the work. Like, are you crazy? My performance should dictate my pay. And that is why I was never complacent in any job that I had, because there's no way that I know how to do more than the position that I have now, which is great, because that's what I was hired for. for but the level two position and then the supervisor's position and then the manager's position and then the person that's above the manager to the director I'm doing all of you guys work ain't no way and and I don't get I don't know nobody's throwing my name in the promotion pool you know saying hey we gotta get this guy to y'all just all benefiting benefiting off of the work that I okay yeah no I understand that's what led me to to pursue this now everybody was talking about sales and you know I don't really like talking to people much you know fit right at the door knocking on the door hi I'm intruding your sanctuary to you know sell this to you that you probably don't need but I'm gonna make up all these lines anyway to say that you need it you know There's no way I couldn't do that. It just wasn't me, you know No, they lose their work was exactly and speaking of horses Hello Welcome blue was in the building, baby. What's up? Was in the building So You see we hit this 30% in the event that we drop and trade lower that IMV could be what we're looking for. But what you have to consider another time about this I'll say that for life life. Sorry for back testing later. Well, we're getting ready to go through homework to No, you, you guys, you guys are going to see why I did the homework this way. Um, and you guys are going to see the benefit of it. Um, it's, uh, uh, you know, pretty much something that, that I wish I had while I was trading. I had it while I was learning in college though. I'll tell you that the teachers I had, they, you know, I always thought, man, they should be fired. Got a stick update. But you know, that's what I was thinking as a young kid. And now I'm like, yo, that teacher was so thorough and knew exactly what they were teaching that they could spot everything that had nothing to do with their assignment. They could spot who was actually studying or not just based on reading the information said back to them. The way that they designed it, it's crazy looking back on it. Those were the best teachers, the teachers who were strict, and you always thought they were mean, and whatever it is, but it's just they did not play about their work, and they understood that you needed to do it in this exact way too, or else you would not be able to progress or move on. You wouldn't further yourself. I had teachers who were teaching me course content of other teachers, right, that would have that course content in year three, and they were teaching me that in year two, just to prepare me for year three, and year three would have nothing to do with what they were teaching in their current class, but they were so efficient with teaching what it is that they were teaching in their current class that they could spend an extra 10 minutes at the end of it going into something else that you're gonna need a year from now, and by the time you got there, you really. realized how much that teacher impacted your learning. When you got to that place and you saw everybody else who was sort of unprepared and could not do the same things or could not synthesize information the same way, it was that teacher that the credit went towards. It was that teacher that the credit went towards. Yeah, a little move just maybe $95 in three minutes so that that's the for me if I wanted to trade with that kind of leverage I know some people are saying okay one micro on ten points won't make you $100 right but five micros will right so if I wanted to use five micros right I need to be taking positions that allow me to take a five micro trade and reduce my risk because I cannot take any trade on five micros knowing that I'm leveraging more than I should right but I also want to find a way to balance that leverage that was me that was that's what what I was learning in the beginning how to balance being leveraged highly because if I knew how to do that, I could get myself out of the situation I was in faster. So it wasn't only about just trading and making money, but it was also being able to balance higher leverage trades, trades that I would pack more risk into. For a reward, that would have been one that, on a lower risk, I needed to hold for longer. So that was my thinking behind it, and that's where things like the origin of the move came, things like cheap dad, the 70% came. So you have something like this, right? This little one here. Right into the origin, right? We hit that 30% right there, and we run right off of it. Look at the risk behind there. And even us coming back to here, we hit that 50% now. Look at the risk behind there. And if I'm trading to the previous candle's high. right here? At the 1052? From here to there, what I'm risking inside of there? Come on, I'm not, you know, I was very methodical in the way that I backtested and how I got my entry. I was methodical about the entry, because if I could time that properly, then the whole market is mine. Because I'm not only timing the entry here, I'm timing the entry from the higher time frame, I'm timing the entry from whatever it is. It could be within the four hour, anything. I can take any time frame and properly time an entry in that I'll see some sort of proof from. So that's where I sort of went through the whole, going through the different time frames and looking for that thing that I was looking for, the thing that I felt like I needed to see, right? And a lot of people talk about that call that made yesterday for 146 I think it was or something like that. What is 146? What exactly is that here? What was through here? It said an alert for something here. Can anybody let me know? Anybody can see? So we have this down candle right there, but not only the down candle, we're going to talk about the down into that up move, right? That's really fast. We close above it. We tap back into it right here, right? So this is where that first tap came from to put in a new high. So that second tap is here too, but I had to go to another timeframe to see what was there. And we have that hourly. There right now, but when I went down even more I started to Look at what was there and now we have this mm. That's right here right so We have this trading into the mm. We have a sweeping this low in Asia right here, right? That's a 1800 candle swept that low right there, and then what I said was When you're using a higher time frame When you're using zil you want to make sure that it's paired with a higher time frame sweep So if you get we got this sweep here, right and then we get the sweep of Asia's low, right? So we got that sweep and there's that first one there and then that second tap there that ran back into that range so This was from yesterday and refining down to you know the the higher Timeframes that I was on over here And that's how I was able to Find that move I was with premium they they We did the top-down early in the day and then ended up getting the alert when it got there So then today's or at least yesterday's move Asia's move Asia's move came off of another zone to you know, this move here. I sent this to the the option to side But I'm gonna open up a channel that everybody can just see my charts instead of just commenting on each channel Gotta stop that BE again. So you have to remember that if it respects these levels, so if it ran up to the 30 and it hit the 30 and it respected it, then it'll run up to the 50 as well, and you could see a move off of it, right? But if it runs up to the 30 and drops back, and then it runs back in and it still gets stuck at that 30 that's there, right, you're expecting price to now go to the invalidation of that move that you were trying to trade, right? And when it gets to that invalidation, that's oftentimes where you could see another move trading higher, but you always want to wait for that sweep, right? So now this is a And you see a little strong move coming out of it like that Maybe it's going to this previous candles high if it closes with bullish momentum Then you could potentially have you know higher prices but what you want to see is an imbalance go down and imbalance go up and that oftentimes is What's letting you know that? price is looking to trade higher without without a Structural higher low being taken Right. So that example is inside of here. You get this imbalance here You get this other imbalance inside of here you trade up that imbalance fills it We take that high we tap back into the 50% of that down candle and then we shift higher off of there Right. So we take out that high we end up getting a double top and we're looking for this low because equal highs runs both loads So we take out this low tap back into the origin shift higher go to the previous candles high like I know It to you guys right and then we end up seeing us trading back below to where? Nearest to Invalidation or could we be looking for the low of this and then looking to get back in there either way This low here. I would now be anticipating us To trade back And wherever this stops back into here back into this 133, so we'll watch this as it continues to dip But I've been moving right back into maybe somewhere around this 50 to 70% there You What is this? Oh, this is a higher time for him to sleep too, so yeah, this is a good time to use Zill as well. And remember the 10 o'clock candle that's here. Five minute closure, back to 10 o'clock. So note this inside of here This this wick high right here That is not a part of structure So just remember to keep those on your chart. And what do we have here? We have one, two, and now this is three here. Now, I usually like to see a stronger wind. down below so that's not sufficient Remember if you look in a second's time frame we have nothing right, so we're still watching this dip right, you want to wait to see some of that breaking occurring, so this is a previous candles high right here right, should a second's time frame ends up running here and closing from the one minute you could see a move here that goes back into here and then try to go fill some of that through there, but you want to wait for that to occur that's why we just trail as it's going down. take a long run here to 1950 that's where I'm longing to , who is goes into sideways into retracing and let me take on the proper levels 68 . And again, I'm going to go back to the bottom of the screen and I'm going to go to the bottom of the screen . 0.1 and one Remember this is the thing I would need to see us close up above to now think that we're trading back into you know like this previous range or into some of these prices but this is just me looking for us to get up into that 50 area. and into into that the range there Now what is that high shared with because I know you guys Saw me select that from the one minute, but What is the high shared with? The reason as to why it traded back into this range Is it is it the 30% oh yeah Yeah You So that is the previous candles high but above it On the one minute I had selected this Right here, right This is an mm this here So if you look on the lower time frames you can see it You get this little tiny one here I would more or less say it's this one just remember what I said the multiple touches you want You just take the ones that have more touches to it So that's right there. You see that BAM right up above that high and then trades back into that range like that So this gave about 40 points going up if we end up closing below this low with an imbalance It'll more than likely Tap into the imbalance and trade lower You can take a wick there, that's fine, but the the clothes ends up creating more downside Price is definitely an algorithm. We're basically learning the language. Yes. Yes that 100% true But again, whatever it is that I saw up here on the one minute I can go down to the five second and see something there too. I can go up to the five minute and see something there too. Like there's all of these places that you can kind of confirm your entries with what you know you're looking for, right? But if you're looking for everything to trade everything, what do you think is going to come from that? You're trying to trade every single thing. You're not gonna have any idea of what to actually look for. So nice, that's a nice little long that came out of there. We know that when we do hit that BE, right, there are times where we drop back to the entry, right? Or back near the entry, right? With the possibility of what, maybe going up to that 50%. So that's why when you're targeting the previous candles high, or when, like, all of those different things, you want to have a systematic approach to it that doesn't leave you exposed to holding on to a risk that you don't need to hold on to. this is a test This is an mm right here Yes Better to be eaten to lose I know that much I mean that that's also where the You know this this drop heading this way Knowing and understanding where you are and then being able to use You know some sort of wick tap or by stop or whatever within here to be able to take that extension up To this high right the The mm that we mentioned there you see a head was fighting below it broke above it right and then trade it back into the range So if your entry was here and your exit was here you don't need to worry yourself about the high getting taken or you know the low getting taken or Actually making it to whatever target you know I you know said it would go to You never worry about any of that you just reprice for what is given you and you know you move within that But uh, I still have it going to 1950 But I'm gonna get on out of here because I have A back test in which you guys earlier. I'm no sir not earlier later. I have back to some of you guys later and There's gonna be a Quick backtesting session, so make sure you show up as fast as you can especially when we Started it would start anywhere between six to seven o'clock or so and I don't want you guys to to You don't think in any way shape or form that I'm If I'm calling targets, I'm not taking entries to I'm looking for the same stuff. I'm just Managing it a lot different than than you guys would you know you get that tap into that zone you could manage through these lows If you want these bullish candle lows As price trades to that target you understand that we can be going to that 70 or we can get stuck at the 30 again Just like we did up there right so whichever one it is however it is you're gonna manage you need to manage Responsibly understand when we leave an area and trade back to it That's where you manage through the bullish candle lows the first one is just a scalp moving up right and the second one Now is the larger move so the larger move you could manage a lot better when it's making those highs or lows You know as it's as it's moving up, and if it takes you out at whatever point that it takes you out And that's fine, but you also you always want to manage your entries Below below the the by stop lows right so what's a by stop low below? These lows right here right we shift up and close above those you want to manage your stops behind those right So if this moves higher like that and closes up above that your stop now moves here if this begins to run with green Candles just running now your stop is going to be Quickly going with price above to those you to that target wherever it is that it's going but you want to make sure you do that at all times and That would help you to manage a little better with with your entries, but you can learn this kind of management and back Testing and not have to sacrifice your capital just to learn it through loss right, so I'll see you guys soon I'll catch up with you all and Later peace out You