# Transcription: Top-Down Analysis and Backtesting Hacks [At3zVdidYig].wav

All right. So, every single day, he's looking at his madness. Every, let me delete this. Every single day that we open up these little candles. Every single day that we open up, this is a close by the way, this is the open down here. Every day that we open up, we have a target. You guys always hear me talk about targets a lot. Every day that we open up, we have a specific target for price to meet. Now, there are some days, it'll be an inside day. You see this here? That's an inside day. Why do I call it an inside day? Because if you look at the high and the low of the previous candle, we trade it within the range of it. We did not come out of it. But on the flip side of that, most days that we are trading, we have a target. So we have this inside day here that happens. day opens up and what does it do? Flush the highs. Trades back within it. Like that. The following day opens up, what do we do? Flush the low. Trades back up into it, right? The next day opens up, what do we do? Flush the low and trade back up into it, right? Every, almost every day, let me say every single day, almost every day, there's a particular target that price has. So what I'm showing you guys is the wicks, right? But that's not accounting for when price trades up above this zone. And we tap into the different areas that are present here. So we end up taking out this high right here, daily high. Now let's take our Fibs, take the high and the low. Look at the price action surrounding this. So we take out this high. Actually, I wonder which one happened first. Let me go to the 4-hour. Hold on. So we run this high, and then we come back to here. OK. So we run this high, and we immediately go to the 50% one. with this. Yeah, we run this high, right? And what do we do? This is the four hour, by the way, we tap onto the 30%. No high given, right? We come down to the 50. 50 gives us another tap equivalent to what support and resistances. We retest that area, same area. There's POIs within here at the 50% that we know that price can come and retest. But not only that, you guys see us use the leftover wicks, right? So how'd you use the leftover wick within the 50% portion? of that last down move that we recorded, right? Price taps into the 50% and not only that, the leftover wick, you know, the push there, right? So let me just go back to, so if you look, not just are we dealing with these targets that price has, the price is running, we're also dealing with zones too. We're collectively adding them together. So now, here's the zone we taught the other day in Discord with the imbalance that's oftentimes below it, where we're gonna shift off of it. Beautiful. Swept these lows here tapped into the imbalance relative equal lows, by the way Swept those lows tapped into the imbalance and pushed up now we're here at I Believe this was the gap the gap down But where we also are since I said, I don't I told you guys I don't trade gaps But we also are we're here The initial flip that brought price down And this is just using candlestick structure from the daily perspective so If you look we closed Opened up shifted the low and then tapped back into the This 30% right here with that wick and that let us down that shorted So With here From this open to this 30% So We look at where we are in price And what do we end up seeing The little zone that we speak about Or the one that I taught the other day we're right within here as well as We know that this is a hidden snd So we end up right smack dab in the center of the hidden S and D. And if we continue to shuffle out, we see, oh, hidden S and D, right? Right here. But that sponsored the up move. And when we shifted below it, another hidden S and D formed and took us down. So what are we expecting? At least this high to be taken. So if we go all the way back to where the top down analysis started earlier today, you guys can go back to the and look at it. I placed this line up here and said that we'd be coming for this high. Because we were able to go through the top-down analysis, and we were able to see the different things that were present. Hidden S&D present here. This is the high of the hidden S&D, right here. This is the last up move, the last up candle, the institutional candle, it's present. It's all working together to give us directional bias. Directional bias. So now we've achieved that target, or at least the target I was expecting. One thing that I do want you guys to know is this fractal here. Right here, you just put the, this fractal within here, the bottom of this wick right here. Let me... Bottom of this wick right here, the top of this wick right here. That's the fractal, the zone. This is the last up move before we sent the market down. We retested that move, but we didn't tap into the 30% or the 50% of the up move. So when I start to zoom out, it becomes clear. This is the inside move before the market shifted away. When I go down to the one minute. This ends up showing itself as the last up move before we shifted away. And we have a little mitigation here, but not enough. So this is where price comes back to. And the guy on stream earlier was asking, you know, questions to cut corners. He's been around for a minute, so that's why it was a little tough with him. But that's what you guys saw me marking up for the top down analysis. I'm going to save this video and, you know, upload it for you guys so you guys can cross compare both videos as well. But that... Actually, let me leave some room. So many of these drawings up, at least a fractal, 30% capital fractal. And that's how I maintain, you know, the intraday bias that I have. And I'll just trade little areas around it. This was something that I said we would get rejected at, but I had price taken the high of. So no, I did a top down analysis on stream and not really explaining a lot of, you know, what I was marking up and what I was doing. But that is, you know, the top down analysis. So you guys do this on your own time, you know, do this, when do this, go all the way back to as far as you can get on the one minute. Let me show you guys. So you see I'm on a one minute time frame. You go down here and just select a random date back here. So January 2. When you get back here, this says this is the last available bar right here. So when you're back testing, all you do is take whatever bar that's in front of that. Right here. Now within that bar, you can go back between the one minute, the 15 minute, the one hour, the four hour, the daily, and back to the one minute without it resetting anything for you. So on any pair that you're trading on, all you do is go back to the daily and do the same thing, the same kind of markup that you just saw. And then you allow the one minute or the 15 minute, whichever, whichever timeframe you guys use to trade with the zones. You allow that to play out. You start to mark up those different areas and you start to, you know, judge minute by minute. You can, you can walk this forward. You can walk this forward. Have your little markups ready or whatever it is and just. forward like that. And if it happens to tap into any of your markups and you know it continues, then you note that you remember that. Who runs anything, you note that you remember that you remember the structure, you remember the things that happened. Look, we took out this high right here. So we take out this high, and this was the low that we put in that successfully shifted the high. What do we end up doing? Running these lows too, and we come back to here. So in the event that this is ran, don't we expect to come back into the range and potentially find a short. If there is a short, we see how that... plays out from backtesting. Backtesting will give you that knowledge, that understanding. It will give you that. It's just people have to know how to backtest. Now you can backtest the strategy. Yes, backtest all the different zones we choose and all that other stuff. But you have to be methodical with it. In all of this price action here, would there have been any entries for anybody to get into? Certainly. If you took the wick and traded what was left of the wick? Hold on. Right here. Did you get a tap on a 30% certainly. Trade it below it. Did you come back within the zone and get a short? Definitely. Did you have areas down here that you could tap into to find a quick long up above? Did you violate a low and find an area to come back into? All of this price action here can be traded. All of that is just how you maximize your backtesting. Your backtesting is not to win a trade. It's not why we backtest. We backtest to understand how to engage in this market. I just wanted to make sure I could give you guys that in terms of how to do it. how I was able to find that direction. What I was able to oh nice little top here let's see. I usually don't take a buy on that with this wick present, not saying that it can't, it can't bounce off of that but I usually don't take a buy on that if the wick is on the other side of the up-down candle let's see yes yes Jeremy yes it's very very precise I know people used to people I met early on talk about they used to be in drawdown for days whose drawdown for days is anybody being in? Not me. You see why I said I wouldn't take that long on that? But Projectiles mentioned oil. Yes. Oil is beautiful. Look at this. Exactly what we mentioned in the stream happened in here. It's very, very low in margin to trade with. Very low in margin to trade with. It all moves the same. You know, there's no tricks, no gimmicks, no new way to learn how to trade it. It all moves the same. Every bit of it. All moves the same. It's just being able to spend enough time to... um, despite it and knowing when the hours get illiquid, you know, or, or, you know, start losing volatility, knowing when that happens versus, you know, the best times to, for it to pack that punch, Asia is not the session to trade oil in. Now I was using oil to learn in Asia, even though it was very pixelated, I was using oil and the Japan exchange early on, but this thing is a mover, a mover. Look, little flip here. So you do that entry up there. This right here is as if us 30 went 97 points. Nasdaq 97 points. And that's within how much time? 23 minutes. 20 minutes. I drew this here because I'm expecting it to tap here and then go up above that tapping here. Maybe a little more into here and balance the shift of the low. So it could be here, but either way, it's a start. I guess that's why I get caught up in and talking a lot because everything else is just like, I see it, I know it, it's there. A little hidden S&D this is tapping into down here. Right here, this candle here. So it shifts to this low, tapping to this hidden S&D, you can bring it back up to this. But just careful with these because a lot of times we'll shift a low and still trade higher in these days that we'd be pushing. like this, we could shift the immediate low and still go and trade higher. So careful with those in terms of like trying to find a rejection and stuff. But you know, I hope that that little small explanation of how to back test, how to do a top down, what to look for when you're on the daily before starting out. We always have an intraday target. I told ProCharge yesterday, if you guys look in the Forex section, I told ProCharge yesterday that he had his demand right here. If you guys look in the Forex section, nobody responded to it, which that's always the disservice because you'll have somebody teaching you all, but then also somebody showing you guys higher time frame zones that you have a start with. So look at this. I mentioned that there's this wick down here. So now you have your demand. zone it was also this fractal up here that was response it was a supply so if you look we tapped right into this wick at the 50% and shift it out and where do we go right into the supply and that's the whole day did we take out any targets tapped into the demand shifted up above the high every day you could have a bias based on these little tiny you know adjustments that you make within your analysis these little targets every single day sometimes these low and highs are ran from Asia and then the rest of the day it starts just pouring down to wherever it is you know so um I mean it's been a minute since I you know said that I told that with the group that I was running for free last year. I taught some of them that ain't nobody listen to that. But it's on everything, every pair that you trade, you could find what the daily target is. And you could find where the move is coming from to head to that target. And then you can just trade intraday on that. If you have problem holding trades and all that other stuff, look, let's go down to the four hour on this. What candle is this? Look like London tapped this. Yep, look at this. London opened up and tapped this. No, not London. Sorry, look, I'm tripping. This is news. Yeah, this is news. And then, what do we have present below? below. These are daily targets to press is not just ironing through these things is daily targets, but they give you a start. So look at that. We have this zone right below. And where do we tap within this zone below? You'll see this 30% of this zone below. That's also the 50% of the demand. And I guess if we go down further, look at this, look, look at this setup. Look exactly what we like to see. Goodness. Exactly what we like to see is video present. Yes, it is. Traded up above the high, tapped into the 50% of the zone, also an imbalance present in the middle of it. Tapped into there, and then what? Gave us the exact thing we'd like to see. Did it give us another opportunity? Yes. We shifted up above this high, tapped into here, and then looked. Rest is history. Just over putting all of that together, and again, it's been a minute since I went through that as in-depth as I just did, and I figured since I was recording, I might as well, but I hope that helped somebody. I'm gonna go ahead and turn the camera off here so I don't, we'll turn the recording off here so I don't spoil this video. It's about 25 minutes long. It's gonna be how to backtest and do a top-down analysis. Title.